('Enrolling at UIUC', 'New Student Question', 'I just accepted my offer of admission to UIUC! Is there any advice y’all would give to a dysfunctional incoming freshmen 💀')

('What shows up on their screen when they scan your icard at the cbtf?', 'New Student Question', 'Just your seat number or other things as well? just curious')

('Current student scholarships?', 'Prospective Students', "I'm in-state and was admitted to LAS. I didn't receive any merit scholarship, but I'm still strongly considering going to UIUC since the cost of attendance appears to be cheaper or close to the price at a lot of the other schools I got into with scholarships. However, I was wondering if there were still any scholarship opportunities (in LAS or just the school in general) that I could look into if I do end up going here?")

('Transfering ISchool to First Year Engineering', 'New Student Question', 'I am a new admitted student for information science major in ISchool, and I am hoping for changing to computer science + x major in Grainger School of Engineering. For that, I wonder if I can transfer to First Year engineering major in my sophomore year, Would it be difficult to achieve? This may be important to decide wether I should accept my offer or not😭')

('Gen Ed Confusion', 'New Student Question', "Hey, I've been accepted by uiuc into the school of social work and plan on majoring in child social work/therapeutic fields. I've been trying to see what gen eds i would have to take for my studies but I'm kind of confused by what's what and the gen eds for different schools and whatnot. Can anyone in the School of Social Work shine some light on what gen eds i would need and if my AP classes will save me done money?")

('Transfer Decision', 'New Student Question', "I applied for transfer in the fall to UIUC's accountancy major in mid January. But I haven't yet received my decision. Two of my friends who submitted later than me have, where one in Information System major get in, and they submitted in early march. I have a GPA of 3.91. Has anyone got their decision yet? And does anyone know if my chance of getting in is low since it's rolling basis. Thanks!")

('Candles &amp; Cupcakes?', 'New Student Question', 'I saw this event posted on the unions website at 7pm tomorrow but I couldn’t find any other information on it. It says grab and go, is it free? If not, what is the cost? Has anyone done any of this before')

('UIUC Mechanical Engineering program feedback', 'New Student Question', 'Would love to hear good and bad about UIUC Mechanical Engineering program and outcome ( professors, lab, classes, internship, co-op programs etc). Thank you in advance.')

('Dorm selection.', 'Prospective Students', 'I am a prospective student and I am currently in the process of figuring out the whole dorm situation. Is there anything specific I should know that I might not have know otherwise. I am currently thinking I either want to live in Nugent or Bousfield. For reference I am a biochemistry major.')

('School of Information Sciences', 'New Student Question', 'So i recently appealed for uiuc ischool after being rejected from grainger and just got my appeal accepted. idk if i’ll go but i can find like no info about it online (probably because it’s new). can anyone let me know what the school is like, avg post grad salary, or really anything at all in general?\n\nThanks!')

('Information Systems at Gies', 'New Student Question', "Hi, I have recently been admitted to UIUC's Gies College of Business and it is one of my top choices. I plan on majoring in Information Systems at the end of the 2 years and was wondering if anyone currently pursing IS could provide information about the program, how good it is, types of jobs/companies, salaries, etc. \n\nThanks!")

('TRANSFER BETWEEN CS+X ?', 'New Student Question', 'I applied to CS+Econ because the LAS college offered flexibility between majors and more variety in what I am learning (two things extremely important to me); but recently, I have been questioning the extent to which I am able to change my major. Before I accept my offer into CS+Econ, I would like to ask the following questions to gauge the extent to which I am able to modify my academic plan. Even though the exact rates I am looking for may not be released, I think you guys could give me a satisfactory notion of exactly how difficult the following transfers are:\n\n1. What is the transfer rate from CS+X to Mathematics?\n2. What is the transfer rate from other CS+X to CS+Stats or CS+Math?')

('DGS vs Parkland Pathways', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello UIUC community, I’m a senior from Champaign and I was recently denied from my first and second choice majors (CS and Aerospace) although I still want to attend engineering at UIUC. Currently, my two options are the division of general studies and Parkland Pathways engineering undeclared and I was wondering if anyone could provide some clarity on the pros and cons of the two programs.')

('Is the ARISE program worth it?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello! Recently I just got an email from UIUC about signing up for the ARISE program. Like most other people, I applied for the CS major, but was put into DGS instead. The ARISE program sounds really promising, but I don’t know whether it’s something I should pursue because I’ve read countless stories of how difficult it is to transfer into CS. I’m just curious because it says that I can transfer into the college of engineering after a single year. Does anyone know whether the ARISE program is any better than just transferring normally? \n\nIf not, I’m going to attend Iowa State’s CS program. I’m just worried because I don’t want to throw away my opportunity at Iowa State if my chances at UIUC are slim. Thank you for your time :)')

('UIUC vs UCLA Chemical Engineering', 'Prospective Students', "Okay ik this is the UIUC subreddit so it may be a bit biased but....\n\nI got into chemical engineering at both UIUC and UCLA. He is now debating on where to go. UIUC is ranked at #8 as per usnews and UIUC has a growing reputation for being a great engineering/STEM college. On the other hand, while UCLA is like the best thing that can happen to somebody, it is really worth it?\n\nAs per costs, it doesn't matter cause i'm international. i'm also planning to return to my home country after graduation and work for a year to apply the skills.\n\nAny advice you guys can give would help me out (preferably unbiased lol), thanks!")

('yes prospective las student, no not interested in transferring to eng', 'Prospective Students', "hi all! uiuc seems awesome, but i'm a little apprehensive because i was admitted to LAS. i love the humanities, but most info i've seen on this sub covers grainger/cs/stem programs. i was wondering if anyone could share their experience in LAS - particularly with research, study abroad, honors programs, and exploring classes/work outside of the liberal arts. do you feel like a LAS major at UIUC is worth it? also, **has anyone switched their major within LAS (especially before they came to campus as a freshman) and what was that experience like**?  **THANK YOU!**")

('has anyone ever received a test result like this for COVID?', 'COVID-19', '“Unfortunately, the specimen submitted on the date listed above was rejected by the testing laboratory which means that testing could not be performed.”\n\ni didn’t eat or drink anything for over an hour before my test. what could have happened? kinda freaking out')

('When/where did you receive scholarship notifications?', 'Prospective Students', '(Graduate Students) For those who have applied/been accepted for Fall 2022 — Have you received scholarship notifications and if so, was it a separate email than the acceptance letter or did you just check for updates on the Office of Student Financial Aid portal? I have not heard from the University regarding scholarship information and this is a pivotal piece in finalizing my decision.')

('How is DGS?', 'Prospective Students', "I was admitted by undecided under DGS, I just want to ask how is learning experience at DGS, and how hard is it to transfer to a different major(such as physics or math, I know it's very hard for engineering) after the first year. Any help will be much appreciated.")

('Anyone care to share their honest thoughts and experiences on the College of Applied Health Sciences?', 'Prospective Students', 'I got accepted as a transfer student to AHS. Specifically for the Community Health program. I’m definitely excited since UIUC is in my top 3. But I want to hear from current/recent students now what their experience is like. \n\nIt can be general about the school or program. What’s living in Urbana-Champaign like? Social life? What you like and don’t like about the school or program. \n\nFor perspective, I’ll be 24 when I start fall semester so hopefully it’s a good place to be in your mid 20s lol')

("Dr. Everitt's Neighborhood but for purely CS", 'New Student Question', "Hey I'm an incoming freshman and I was wondering if anyone has any information about an interactive excel sheet to map out the 4-year CS Curriculum, or any tools like Dr. Everitt's Neighborhood, but targeted for CS?")

('Were you all overwhelmed when you first visited UIUC?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hey, I visited UIUC and I was just so overwhelmed by how humongous the school is. The only other schools I’ve visited have either been really small (like 3-5k students) or medium sized (like Notre dame) so that obviously has an effect on my perspective. However, none of the schools I’ve been accepted to and visited have really been “wow this is perfect for me!” so I don’t want to rule out UIUC just for the size. \n\nDo you get used to the size? Is it scary? Is the walking annoying especially in cold weather? What if you have a class from 1-1:50 and then one at 2, but it’s across campus?')

('I’m a high school student. Can I talk to a counselor from uiuc.', 'New Student Question', 'I was going to go to community college for a year and get 30 credit hours. I was wondering if I have to give my sat score when I apply to uiuc. Does anyone know the answer to this question or is there a way I can talk to someone from uiuc')

('How feasible is Dual Degree in Two Completely Unrelated Fields', 'New Student Question', "^(TDLR below)\n\nHoping to get some perspective from those enrolled in Dual Degrees, and also Theater Majors, and to see if I am way in over my head\U0001f972. \n\nI'm transferring this fall as a Junior into ACES Crop Sciences. I'm coming from a community college where I focused on gen-ed and environmental biology. But before that, I had taken some theatre courses at two institutions (Columbia College Chicago and NEIU ). Besides a few theater credits from there, I also have a number of years of experience in acting, on big and small stages in Chicago, including Goodman Theatre, 16th Street Theatre, Urban Theater Company, Chicago Dramatists, and Stage Center Theatre. I also have experience acting in short films and student films. \n\nI seriously love performing and whether I even touch it at all in school, I'm always going to do it, but I also really want to learn the craft as much as I can. I don't feel pressured by time and money (even if I should), so if I need to add an extra year I may as well.\n\nI've researched the Theater Minor here at UIUC and am unsure if that is enough to satisfy my yearning to learn. So, my question becomes, how feasible is it to a dual degree in theatre and crop sciences, two completely unrelated fields, ^(unless I decided to put on Shakespeare on the Farm.)  I realize the acceptance rate in the Theater Acting BFA is seriously rigorous with only 40 students admitted each year, but I'm willing to try and beat the odds and audition for the next available semester.\n\nI suppose it is completely possible as long as I have the willpower and patience to do both majors, but please do let me know your opinions and perspectives.!\n\nTLDR, I'm a Fall 2022 junior transfer into ACES Crop Sciences, but I am also an experienced actor with years of non-college practice. Is it feasible to get a dual degree in Theatre and Crop Sciences?\n\nThanks!")

('Friends?', 'New Student Question', "Not only am I just started at UIUC this semester, but this is also the first time I'm here in the US. Really want to explore the campus, perhaps travel within the country as well, and it'd be nice to find a few people that I can hang out with and count on. It's pretty hard for a lone international graduate student to make friends especially someone who isn't used to just walk up to people and initiate conversations like me. Any advice on how to? It'd be nice to just hear all your stories about how you all made friends too!")

('COVID testing requirement', 'COVID-19', 'Forgot to get tested last week, going to go tomorrow. Do you think they will try to impose some disciplinary action or I still have time?')

('thoughts on the econometrics major?', 'New Student Question', 'hey guys, incoming freshmen here whose probably going to commit here for the econometrics major. i haven’t really found much information on this but was curious what your guys thoughts were on the major as a whole. it seems really interesting to me but wanted some insight from current students. thanks!')

('Computer Recommendation Help', 'New Student Question', 'Hello, I was admitted under electrical engineering and am minoring in computer science. I was planning on purchasing a MacBook Pro, but have learned the M1 chip can be quite problematic. I decided to check out the dell XPS 13 inch but was hoping for some feedback. Is there any specific laptop students in ece recommend? I was also wondering if you prefer older macs, windows, or Linux? Thanks!\n\n\n\nIf this post should be removed let me know and I will take it down immediately.')

('Stay away from UIUC chemistry', 'Prospective Students', "Deadlines are coming up. UIUC prospectives, beware. \n\nProspective students deserve to how this chemistry department treats graduate students. The following is a non exhaustive list of events that have happened in the last five years.\xa0\n\n* Students sexually assaulted by lab members in at least 2 labs. PIs know, but no negative consequences for the rapists.\n* A few labs do not follow their own published protocols because the published protocols are made up.\n* One lab uses alarm clocks that shake their whole bed to wake up because the students are so sleep deprived\n* PI shaved someone's head against their will when the student wanted to leave lab in the afternoon\xa0to get a haircut\n* PIs offload extra work on TAs but expect no lapse in research progress\n* PIs don't support career goals outside of academia\n* PIs involved in hiring new professors said the women faculty candidates were nowhere as good as the men faculty candidates and interviewing women was just for show\n* Screaming at students in their offices\n* PIs don't wear masks while talking to their students\xa0during COVID\n* Fume hood doors\xa0broke in synthetic lab. Department did not fix even after multiple maintenance requests. Department only fixed when students complained on twitter. Many of the hallways near synthetic labs smell\xa0like solvent because the hoods\xa0are so outdated.\n* 50% of the graduate student population reports being depressed. No efforts made to alleviate this.\n* Informing students that they must come in to work during the polar vortex or they'll need to use their vacation days\n* Informing students during the COVID pandemic that there are\xa0work requirements\xa0and warning students that stipends can be revoked if they do not work their normal hours. The department also refuses to provide face masks for students.\n* Gender favoritism in terms of who passes candidacy in certain labs\n* No regard for safety, dangerous practices common\n* Some labs with no windows/windows face a brick wall\n\nOP: [https://forum.thegradcafe.com/topic/128752-warning-avoid-uiuc-chemistry/?tab=comments#comment-1058840099](https://forum.thegradcafe.com/topic/128752-warning-avoid-uiuc-chemistry/?tab=comments#comment-1058840099)")

('Places to find roommates', 'New Student Question', 'I’m a recently admitted freshman and am wondering where I should look to find roommates.')

('Can undergrads apply for TA/RA positions in their junior year? Also how competitive is it?', 'New Student Question', 'As a CS+Math undergrad')

('Desired Major at UIC or DGS at UIUC', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi everyone! I’m an incoming freshman and so far my two options are my desired major (biochem) at UIC or the DGS program at UIUC. Everyone on here tends to say that DGS is a scam, but UIUC has a lot more prestige to its name than UIC, so which school would be the better choice? Thanks for the help!')

('Waitlist for arts and sciences', 'Prospective Students', "I was waitlisted for the econometrics/quantitative economics major at the college of arts and sciences. Im aware that getting off the waitlist for schools like Grainger is almost impossible but how many students are admitted off the waitlist for arts and sciences? Should I expect to get off of it in this admissions cycle? I'm out of state btw.")

('11 w’s on my transcript, a 4.0 and only in my sophomore year. How screwed am I for transfer to uiuc/ other schools/ grad school? No sugar coating, honest opinions?', 'New Student Question', '')

('11 w’s on my transcript, a 4.0 and only in my sophomore year. How screwed am I for transfer to uiuc/ other schools/ grad school? No sugar coating, honest opinions?', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Please help me choose!', 'Prospective Students', 'I’m from Bay Area in CA. Which program should I choose - CS + Advertising in Uiuc or CS + Design in Northeastern? No scholarships. Personally prefer design over advertising. Plan to work in Bay Area after graduation. I’m a little worried that CS at Uiuc will be too hard for me.')

('What happens if I fail the Spanish Placement Exam...', 'New Student Question', "So I'm an LAS major who did 3 years of Spanish in HS. I need 1 more semester of Spanish to satisfy the requirement. What happens if I absolutely bomb the Spanish placement exam? Will they make me take 4 semesters of Spanish or will I just get to do 1 easier class?")

('Tired of wearing masks in the classroom', 'COVID-19', 'The mask policy shifts every 15 seconds. If you want to wear it fine but it’s time to stop acting like this is still necessary. Not making a bit of difference anymore.')

('UIUC NPRE vs Purdue FYE', 'Prospective Students', 'Sorry if there’s been an influx in questions from admitted students, just want some input.\nI’ve been admitted to these two schools and really want to make a decision shortly. Purdue would be the more economic choice and would be more flexible to me changing my major. However I’ve heard that campus life at UIUC was better, the engineering program was slightly stronger, and I do like my major for Nuclear, Plasma, and radiological engineering. I guess I’m just worried about how I would be committing to a major at UIUC unlike at Purdue. If anyone can answer, how does the NPRE program at Illinois compare to the rest of the engineering department? Or what made you choose one school over the other?')

('Can anyone help me', 'New Student Question', 'I’ve been kicked out the university for false allegations and I was hospitalized for trying to kill myself and I wrote the appeal as soon as I got out of the hospital and they’re probably going to deny it anyways. My roommates kicked me out. I am suffering so many side effects from the medication the hospital gave me and they don’t care. My body is shutting down and my muscles and chest hurt and I can’t think clearly. I’ve been to the ER more times than i’ve ever been before in the last two weeks. I’m suffering so much no one cares. Does anyone know of someone who can kill me and dispose of my body discreetly? I don’t want my family to find me.')

('UIUC CS vs UCSB CS', 'Prospective Students', 'We are trying to compare UIUC CS vs UCSB CS. We are in-state for UCSB and have regents scholar (priority for housing and other perks). We are in honors program in both school. Tuition will be 30k(UCSB) vs 55k (UIUC). We are comparing the rigor and job/intern prospects for both. How much of an advantage UIUC CS will give over UCSB CS when hunting for intern/jobs in the future?  Is the rigor of the both program comparable? Is the difference big enough to move out of CA? Tuition difference is not a big problem for us.')

('Engineering and marching band', 'New Student Question', 'I was recently admitted to the ECE program at uiuc and will likely attend. I’d love to join the marching illini next year but it sounds like a huge time commitment and I’m not sure how intense the ECE workload will be. Are there any ECE (or engineering in general) majors in marching band that could offer their perspective?\n\nThanks!')

('UIUC Vs Columbia Univ in Post Graduate Computers', 'Prospective Students', 'My Son has got an offer from UIUC for MS (Computer Engg) ECE  tuition fees waived off  and a stipend of USD 2200 with teaching assistance ..and \n\nMS computer sciences in Columbia University( no scholarship and stipend)\n\nWhich one do you recommend?\n\nUiuc or Columbia\n\nTake the criteria of best computer studies (money is secondary choice) \n\nPlease suggest')

('Biggest culture shock as an international student?', 'New Student Question', "Hi :) I am admitted to Grainger as an undergrad in systems engineering and design, and I was wondering what was the biggest culture shock or change that you had do adjust to? I'm an international student who is going to be graduating from an international school in Thailand, so I'm unused to an American culture. Also if anyone could give any advice for an international freshman that would be great! Thanks :))")

('Those who have academic accommodations from DRES, how well do your professors and TA’s “care”?', 'New Student Question', 'I know that I need to show a Letter of Accommodations to each class, but how well do faculty respect that?')

('is uiuc+x worth it?', 'Prospective Students', 'I got accepted into UIUC CS +X, Rutgers CS, UW Madison CS and I’m trying to decide which school to go to. Rutgers is about 35k while the other two are around 55k, but my parents are going to pay either way. But is it worth to pay the extra 20k for uw or uiuc?')

('Asking about statistics major', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello, I just got an acceptance letter from UIUC as a transfer student. I applied statistics as a major, and want to hear who is currently majoring in statistics. I am also interested in Statistics and computer science, so I wonder if there are some ways I can change my major from statistics to statistics and computer science. The main question I have is, I checked up the UIUC statistics degree requirement, and it seems like there are not many coding classes, so I am not sure if I can do some internships while majoring in Statistics.')

('Meal plans', 'New Student Question', 'I’m an incoming junior transfer student and figured I’d do one year at least of meal plans for the hell of it. Get the 6 meals a week and make myself lunch, eat dinner at Ike. When looking at the rates though it’s about $2,500 for that plan. If that’s 6 meals over 17 weeks (finals week) that’s $24 a meal. Individuals dinners are $16 to get in. Meaning it would be cheaper not to get a plan.\n\nAny thoughts? Am I missing something?')

('Halloween on Campus?', 'New Student Question', 'I have a small innocent question as I\'m getting ready to transfer this fall. Is Halloween a widely "celebrated" holiday on campus? Meaning do people dress up? I love costumes, making them, and wearing them during Halloween. I already have a few ideas in mind.')

('General Education Requirements', 'New Student Question', 'So I am a CS+X major in LAS and wanted to know if you can use courses you have to take for your major (GGIS 204 and GGIS465) to satisfy general education requirements as well.')

('i’m a senior in hs and was wondering what made you guys choose uiuc. i am in between here, msu, iowa, and purdue. also anyone living in 6pac that recommends it? ty :)', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Anyone moving to UIUC from India this Fall semester?', 'New Student Question', 'I would love to get in touch with someone moving to Urbana-Champaign from India. The thought of  27+ hours of travel all alone is stressing me the fuck out!')

('Any CS grad students willing to help a prospective student out?', 'New Student Question', 'I got admitted to the MCS program yesterday. Was hoping I could have a chat with any MSCS/MCS student, or any student whos taken CS grad courses in general. Thanks!')

('dorm advice as an incoming freshman', 'New Student Question', "Hi! I just got admitted to LAS for psych as an undergrad (accepted it ofc), and was wondering what I should bring for my dorms. I'm from California with barely any snow, so I'm unused to the weather at UIUC. If I could get any advice on supplies/essentials, that would be fantastic. Thanks!! :)")

("Just applied for MHRIR and I'm so nervous... 😭", 'Prospective Students', "I'm an international student applying to LER and I'm so excited/anxious/scared at the same time... Can anyone address my questions so I can have some peace of mind please? 😭\n\nI've submitted most of my documents, with just the 3x reference letters and the statement of funding remaining. \n\n1. Can I be offered even if I don't have the statement of funding yet, and is it fine to submit it afterwards?\n2. How long does it usually take for the application results to be sent? \n3. Any tips for dealing with the anxiety?")

("UIUC Gies vs Northeastern D'amore Mckim vs UCSD Eco vs UC Davis Eco", 'Prospective Students', "I'm an international student who's applied for finance at Gies and D'amore Mckim and for economics at UCSD and UC Davis.\n\nAlso, at northeastern university i was admitted NU Bound. So i would have to spend my first year in either london or oakland, before transferring into the business school at the main campus.\n\nI'm confused about these schools and I'd like some inputs. Which university would you guys recommend? I'm interested in learning about the placements, university connections and just the overall competitivess and educational caliber of these schools.")

('UIUC vs UToronto vs Imperial for CS', 'Prospective Students', 'Which one should I choose as an international student from India looking to work in the US after graduation?')

('I was rejected by UIUC for systems engineering. I’m not ready to give up yet, any advice on transferring?', 'Prospective Students', '')

('What if I get in as undeclared?', 'New Student Question', 'I applied as a transfer and am still waiting to hear back. I’m worried about what will happen if I get in as undeclared? Would it be worth to transfer if I’m pursuing bio?')

('What are the best places to lose my virginity on campus?', 'New Student Question', "I've been in deep conversation with my hand and we think the time is right. We have both agreed to lose our virginities together. I need to find a suitable place to do the deed. \n\nWhat are some good locations I can try?")

('switching majors before freshman fall?', 'New Student Question', "I saw on the website that its possible but very unlikely. Has anyone done this before? Im looking to switch from bio to bioengineering but i know it's probably a very minimal chance. Advice?")

('FAA Dual Major', 'Prospective Students', 'As a graphic design major are you able to dual major in marketing as well? I am on the fence between a couple schools and UIUC is more of an expensive choice so I am just trying to get all of my facts straight before I make a decision. Also if you have personal experience with the gd program I would love some input!')

('UIUC vs GA Tech CS', 'Prospective Students', "Hi everyone! I am an international student lucky enough to have the choice between these two programs and I have no idea how to pick one. Could you help me out with which parameters to look at? The cold doesn't bother me and I don't have the option of physically visiting either before committing. Cost is also not a factor.")

('Shift from UIC MIS to UIUC MSBA', 'Prospective Students', 'My friend is willing to move from her MIS course at UIC to MSBA or any relevant course at UIUC. Is it possible after one semester down? Please share possibilities.')

('Debt', 'New Student Question', 'Hi, I’m a hoping-to-be student of UIUC. I was admitted, but I found out my debt after I come out of the school is 60,000 and I can’t have a parent co-sign for anything. We earn less than 40K a year, Obviously you don’t have to answer if you don’t want to but what is ya’lls debt gonna be? I’m legitimately curious. I want to go for 4 years but I don’t know if it’s a dumb idea.')

('Gies Business', 'New Student Question', 'Hi everyone!\n\nI am an international student who is considering committing to UIUC. I wanted to know about the opportunities available to students at Gies, especially in terms of internships.')

('Incoming CS PhD Questions', 'New Student Question', "Just a few quick questions about UIUC, since I'll be spending half a decade here lol\n\n1. Is there like a CS grad student discord group or something for events, social activities, etc?\n2. Can I still come to Asian American Association events even tho I am not an undergrad?\n3. From my visit day, it seems like most people are coming direct from undergrad. Is there anyone else coming in with a masters? I am very confused about what classes we need to take lol.")

('Is it possible to land an CS internship after first year?', 'New Student Question', 'Hello everyone! I am an international student and committed to uiuc for cs. I am wondering how hard will be to land an internship after first year as an international student?')

('Please Help. Appeal to be considered for First Major.', 'Prospective Students', "So I got recently admitted for aerospace engineering at UIUC (Grainger) and will be putting in an appeal to be considered again for my first choice (CS). I know it is unlikely, but have any of you put in a similar appeal in the past? If yes, please share any advice as to what I could include in my appeal (I am planning on including my final board grades in which I performed quite well, and the UIUC website says they don't consider any new awards/ecs)  \n\n\nI have got rejected from every other school for CS (all reaches) and UIUC is my last hope to pursue CS in the US, so I want to take a last shot at it. \n\nI would be grateful for any help :)")

('School of Information Sciences (iSchool at Illinois) AMA TONIGHT at 7:00-8:00pm!', 'Prospective Students', 'Joining us for the AMA tonight are:\n\niSchool faculty and staff will be on hand to answer any questions you have about our BS/IS degree, courses, School, research, student life, careers, etc.\n\n* Moises Orozco Villicana, Director of Enrollment Management\n* Melissa Newell, Director of Undergraduate Affairs\n* Tony Torres, Academic Advisor and Coordinator of Undergraduate Affairs\n* BSIS Ambassadors (Current Undergraduates of the iSchool)')

('Going to be a junior transfer in the fall', 'New Student Question', "Hi! I'm going to start attending UIUC as a junior in the fall from community college and was wondering about other people's experiences as a transfer. I'm looking forward to living in a transfer hall such as Scott or Bousfield, however, it seems like most transfers are looking for apartments. The main reason I want to live in a transfer dorm is so that I can meet others who are also new to campus. If you have any suggestions about which dorm to choose or advice as a transfer that would be great! Also, I’m still looking for a roommate!")

('hi! i am an incoming freshman and wanting to major in political science! is this a good major to have?', 'Prospective Students', '')

('hi! i’m an incoming freshman for the 22-23 school year. what do i need to know before i accept my admission?', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Change major from Aerospace to Mechanical?', 'New Student Question', "I've been recently admitted for the class of '26, however, how easy is it to switch majors? i.e. Aerospace -&gt; Mechanical or Electrical\n\nAerospace -&gt; CS :D")

('Can Aerospace graduates work in Mechanical Engineering?', 'New Student Question', 'My guess is that YES, because we share similar curriculum, however, in the industry, how likely Is a fresh aerospace grad to secure mechanical jobs?')

('Illinois app not showing qr code', 'COVID-19', 'Is any else’s Illinois app not showing ur QR code on building access. Instead it shows a boarding pass that has access granted displayed.')

('Engineering scholarships?', 'New Student Question', 'Hello,\n\nI’ve been hearing that some people have already received some engineering scholarships in their fasfa. I got the aim high grant, but I was wondering if there are any more that still have yet to come, or if I could apply for any.')

('Gap Year', 'New Student Question', 'I’m currently a freshman who is struggling a lot. I probably gonna fail some of my classes. I think I may have rushed into college and should have taken a gap year before or gone to community college. I’m having such a difficult time getting by. Some days, I can’t even get out of my bed. How would I go about applying for a gap year? Who should I talk to about it? Are there any forms I have to fill out? What would happen with my financial aid? Any help would be appreciated.')

('Math + CS Dual Degree', 'Prospective Students', "hi! I was admitted about a month ago for math, however I really want to double major in cs. I had a few questions: \n\n1. what do you think the likelihood of me being able to double major in cs (in the college of liberal arts) is?\n2. would it be possible to do a dual degree in cs from Grainger (CoE)?\n\nI've been looking online but am kind of confused by the answers that I've gotten, so any help would be greatly appreciated!! thank youuu")

('questions for uiuc pre-meds 🤨', 'New Student Question', 'someone said i should post this question here since i’m so worried so why not\n\ni plan on going pre-health/pre-med and i have no idea where to commit. \n\nis uiuc a good choice? i heard there are only like 2 hospitals near campus and they don’t really allow much shadowing or volunteering. has anyone had a problem with this? like are you guys able to find clinical opportunities around urbana-champaign?\n\ni’m choosing between uiuc, purdue, uw-madison, and umn-twin cities. i just don’t want to make the wrong decision so i’m worried. if any pre-meds or successful pre-med alumni are open to discussing more about this through pm’s, i’d really appreciate it!')

('Grad housing questions', 'New Student Question', "Hey, I'll be attending uiuc from next fall for my grad school and I'm wondering which streets or areas to avoid for housing.\nI prefer quiet side rather than frat houses or parties and really don't want to be near constructions.. My lab is going to be near south quad so im thinking the urbana side or low campus town since I'll be using bus? I've been some houses near green street, how does that sound to yall? \nI've never been to campus so any advice would be appreciated :) thanks!")

('How does UIUC compare to Purdue in mechanical engineering and engineering overall?', 'New Student Question', "Rankings aside (because they're so close to each other), how does UIUC compare to Purdue in research, facilities, and overall opportunities provided to students?")

('Robotics at UIUC?', 'New Student Question', "Hey everyone, I've been admitted to UIUC for Systems Engineering and Design, and I plan to focus in Robotics and Autonomous Systems. I've got a few questions on this:\n\n- Will my focus in Robotics be on my diploma? How will employers know (or not know) what courses I've taken?\n\n- If I plan to graduate a year early, is it still possible to do a focus in Robotics and Autonomous Systems?\n\n- Is a Systems Engineering degree as well-received as something like Mechanical Engineering or Electrical Engineering?\n\n- If I want to pursue robotics, is it a good idea to continue my current plan with SED/ISE, or is it better to try to transfer into Electrical or Mechanical Engineering?\n\n- My other option here is Robotics at ASU Barrett (honors, Polytechnic campus). Apart from tuition, which would be a better option for me?\n\nThanks!")

('Flame Away-Purdue vs UIUC Engineering', 'Prospective Students', "Daughter has been accepted to UIUC for Mechanical Engineering.  OOS.  No financial help so far.   Makes Purdue 15k/yr cheaper(Purdue oos too).  So I respectfully question why UIUC over Purdue when the engineering rankings basically show these two schools adjacent to each other in the rankings.   I am sure many of you were accepted at both schools.  What separates UIUC?   Will she be more successful because UIUC offers better support to the students?   \n Purdue engineering has always been known as a meat grinder.  Is UIUC too?  Can she make more as a co-op to help offset the price difference?  Will she make more when she graduates to justify the cost difference?  Looked at both schools' metrics and there's little difference in co-op and post-grad salaries.  Being totally respectful here as we've toured both schools, both are fantastic but really struggling with what amounts to $60k over 4 yrs.  Sell me on UIUC.\n\nAnd what we took away from our ILL and Purdue tours is that ILL appears to be more focused on basic research whereas Purdue is more industry-focused?  Were we wrong in our ILL impression? TIA!")

('Any information sciences major willing to help me out?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hey I got admitted to the bsis in information sciences at uiuc and I wanted to know more about it as I’m not sure if I should commit or not since the program is new. It would be great if I could talk to any information sciences major so I can get a detailed insight about the major and deduce whether it’s a fit for me and if it’s worth it. Thanks!')

("Should I return to campus if I'm sick?", 'COVID-19', "I've been sick for the past week now (coughing, sneezing, sore throat, stuffy nose, etc). I took an at-home covid test and it came back negative, but I've been off campus all week so I haven't had the chance to take an on-campus test. Do you think it's safe for me to return to campus? If so, what would be the best way to travel? I purchased train tickets months ago before I knew that any of this would unfold, but Amtrak doesn't allow people with covid symptoms on the train. Does Peoria Charter allow sick people on the bus? I would take my sailboat but I'm not sure I'll make it by Friday which is the testing deadline. Still hoping this canal project becomes a reality…")

('Request For Assistance regarding College transfers', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello everyone.\n\nI am an international student, who will be attending the  **Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering** (**Arizona state)** as a UG student with a major in Computer science and Engineering, starting from fall 2022, However, I plan to try to transfer to **Grainger college of engineering-UIUC** after the completion of my freshman year and I have come across a problem and seek advice on the same from the UIUC community.\n\nWhile checking the transferrable equivalencies of the courses listed in the transfer handbook provided on the UIUC website, I could find courses at **ASU** equivalent to all of them except for three: **CS101, CS124,** and **CS125**.  This is a matter of concern because my preferred major after the transfer is Computer Science and the completion of one of these is compulsory to be able to apply for the program. After a lot of research, I came to know that the Introductory course **CS101 at ASU** has been discontinued, and the preliminary courses for Computer Science majors include Principles of programming- **CS110** presently, which transfers to UIUC but as **CS105**, making it futile in helping my transfer process.\n\nStudying my major of choice at UIUC is one of my primary ambitions and I am aware of the chances one has when transferring to such a competitive major. Therefore, I request any sort of guidance, advice, or suggestions relevant to this matter. I shall be very grateful.\n\nThank you.\n\n**PS;** ***I already sent an email regarding this to the engineering transfer department 12-13 hrs ago and received no response, which could be because of them receiving too many emails. However, I do not wish to be repetitive as this may annoy the staff.***')

('Which is easier, ANTH 103, PSYC 100, or SOC 100?', 'New Student Question', 'I have to finish off this gen ed next sem and trying to figure out which is the easiest in terms of course load. Im not majoring in anthropology, psychology, or even sociology (CS lol) so im trying to finish it off in the most efficient way possible. Which course out of the three ([ANTH 103],[PSYC 100],[SOC 100]) is the easiest?')

('Stamps Scholarship', 'New Student Question', "I'm interviewing for the Stamps Scholarship on campus this Thursday and was wondering if anyone can tell me what the process/vibes are like, especially the committee interview. Thanks!")

('Is it worth appealing into Computer Engineering?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello, I was recently waitlisted for CS here and I was wondering if it would be an ok option to try and appeal for CompE since it seems that rarely anyone gets off the waitlist for CS. \n\nI am interested in computer engineering as well so I have no problem with enrolling as that major.')

('Building Access/Illinois App', 'COVID-19', 'New update to the Illinois app won’t let me login unless I give access to track location and bluetooth. So I can’t go to class unless I let Jones know everywhere I’ve been?')

('Taking Computer Networking Courses as a LAS student', 'New Student Question', "I was recently admitted to the CS + Astronomy major at UIUC and I'm really excited that I have the chance to go to UIUC next fall. On top of this I was also admitted to the honors program in the college of LAS, meaning I get priority course registration. I'm really interested in computer networks and computer networking so I hope to be able to take a the computer networking courses at UIUC. Considering my major and the school I was admitted to, would it be reasonable for me to take the first two courses on computer networks (@ Grainger College Engineering) within my first two years? What about my first year?\n\nThanks to all and I hope to see you on campus in the fall.")

('This is probably a stupid question, given UIUCs reputation, but how difficult is it to get into the CS + Phil. program?', 'Prospective Students', "So I know that pretty much all CS majors are incredibly difficult to get into because of the reputation of the College, but I still want to know. I'd really like to go to UIUC for CS + Philosophy, but I'm not sure how realistic that goal is.\n\nGod I hope this doesn't turn into a joke.")

('UIUC CS+Econ vs. UCSD Data Science', 'Prospective Students', 'I’m interested in CS, stats/ML, and some aspects of economics but not yet sure about either grad school or specific industry positions. I’m deciding between these two choices (OOS for both, cost isn’t the primary concern). \n\nJust curious how much a more rigorous CS education at UIUC vs. a less rigorous CS core (in the data science major at UCSD vs. CS at UCSD) will matter in the long run. At both places it seems like there’s ample opportunity to take enough economics, ML, stats classes in addition to core major requirements. \n\nThe data science major at UCSD is relatively new and industry placement is likely not as good as UIUC (but that’s just a hunch and I don’t have evidence yet). I’m also a bit concerned that folks pattern match for a CS degree and a data science degree might get rejected by resume screeners. \n\nOf course location and weather are stellar in California vs Illinois. \n\nAny advice on other things I should consider while making this decision. I plan to visit both soon as well.')

('CS + X vs CS engineering', 'New Student Question', 'Hello everyone,\nI’m newly admitted CS + X transfer student. I have a question regarding CS major at UIUC. I know there is a significant difference between CS in eng and CS + X in LSA in terms of curriculum, but I really want it to know more specifically about those two major. I heard that it’s much hard to get a job as CS+X major.. Is that true?\n\nThanks a lot.')

('UIUC GRADUATION', 'New Student Question', 'how does graduation here typically play out?? is it all combined or do we graduate w our college (you know what i’m talking ab). also, do we have a valedictorian? who gives a speech?')

('Tested Positive', 'COVID-19', 'What do I do if I just tested positive for covid and I’m stuck at home. Do I have to submit my test?')

('uiuc single dorms', 'Prospective Students', 'im planning to attend uiuc next year and i was wondering how easy it is to secure a one-person dorm?')

('Housing &amp; A/C', 'Prospective Students', 'I’m an incoming freshman looking at the housing options, and I’m wondering if the halls with no a/c are bearable?\n\nI’m leaning towards Barton if possible because I’m hoping for a single, but I’m not sure if I should stay away from it without the a/c.\n\nThanks :)')

('Questions from a recently admitted student.', 'New Student Question', 'So I’m a senior in high school from California who was recently admitted into UIUC. So far it is my best option so Im’m starting to think that this may end up being the school I commit to. But there are some questions I have.\n\n1. How big are class sizes? (I do not like big classes)\n\n2. How hard is it to get the classes you want to take? (I’m assuming they give upperclassmen and recruited athletes priority)\n\n3. Is there an honors college that I can apply to? \n\nWould really appreciate some answers on these question. Thank you!')

('Easiest way to return amazon packages on campus?', 'New Student Question', 'I was wondering what the easiest way to return amazon packages was. Are there any of those amazon locker hubs nearby? Amazon currently is showing the only way I can return these packages is at a Kohl’s dropoff or the UPS Store, both of which are a bit far from campus. Was jw if anyone knew any other way.')

('Do Not Live at Hendrick House', 'Prospective Students', 'Obligatory yearly warning post\n"where should I dorm next year?" NOT HH!\n\nThe elevators are permanently broken/sketchy\nThere\'s roaches in the kitchen and in YOUR room too\nThey turned all covid isolation rooms into tour rooms \nThe food sucks, every day it\'s slop\nThe hallways are dingy, sloppy, and smelly from rotten trash\nThe fire alarm is pulled weekly with fines for ignoring it\nIt\'s extremely overpriced\n\n\nThey use you up like a money punching bag and toss you out when it\'s empty. Remember when the roof exploded this summer with residents still in it? They were given 50 bucks and put in a hotel for 2 weeks and told to shut up. Well not me\n\nGo live at ISR instead or some shit. Your first year engineering classes are going to be on the main quad anyways! Take the bus to eceb!')

('UIUC MS Stats vs UWashington MS Stats', 'Prospective Students', 'I got admitted to both programs and am confused about which one to choose. Got no funding from either and tuition for both is pretty much the same but the cost if living(CoL) in Seattle is probably going to be much higher.\n\nI know UW is a much better Stats department, the only reason I’m considering UIUC is cuz of the low CoL.  \n\nI would like to know which one would be better from the POV of ease of finding an internship and job, faculty etc. Any other info anyone has that would help is welcomed.')

('Any MS Bioinformatics ppl here?', 'Prospective Students', 'I want to know about the student experience in the MS Bioinformatics programs at UIUC. How satisfied you are with the courses and research opportunities and how was the career path like afterwards (are the bioinformatics tracks geared more towards academics or people looking to work in industry)? Would appreciate if you could share your experience or whatever advice either in the comments or in pm.')

('How hard is it to get a CS minor as a Stats major?', 'Prospective Students', 'I am a current high school senior going to UIUC as a Stats major in the fall and I was wondering if it is feasible for me to get a CS minor. I’ve read a lot of posts on the subreddit about CS minors at UIUC but I wanna hear more from the Stats majors. I am planning to go to grad school as well for computational finance or something related to that so I would also like to hear what other stats majors are doing. Thanks in advance.')

('I got in UIUC MSCS and CMU MSML. I wanted to know about the ML research at UIUC.', 'Prospective Students', 'I am inclined towards a research career in ML. Financing is a big difference, but at this point not a big problem. How to choose between these two schools ? How is ML faculty at UIUC ?')

('Reminder: You Need A Negative Covid Test Result By March 25!!', 'COVID-19', '[https://emails.illinois.edu/newsletter/667255649.html](https://emails.illinois.edu/newsletter/667255649.html)\n \n• During the week after Spring Break, all undergraduate students must receive one negative on-campus test result.\n• You may receive this negative result between Thursday, March 17 and Friday, March 25.\n• You will continue to have “Granted” access until the end of the day on Friday, March 25 to give you time to meet this requirement.\n• In-person classes will continue as planned starting March 21.\n• Faculty, staff and graduate students planning to travel during Spring Break are encouraged to take an on-campus test as soon as they return to the community.')

("Reminder to test as you're returning to campus! You need a negative covid test by Mar. 25", 'COVID-19', '**Spring Break return (**[**https://emails.illinois.edu/newsletter/667255649.html**](https://emails.illinois.edu/newsletter/667255649.html)**)**\n\n* During the week after Spring Break, all undergraduate students must receive one negative on-campus test result.\n* You may receive this negative result between Thursday, March 17 and Friday, March 25.\n* You will continue to have “Granted” access until the end of the day on Friday, March 25 to give you time to meet this requirement.\n* In-person classes will continue as planned starting March 21.\n* As a reminder, face coverings will still be required in classrooms during in-person class time.')

('Debating going to UIUC for psychology', 'Prospective Students', 'Im mainly worried that I’ll feel bored living in that area. Im a transfer student, and I live in Chicago right now. I love the diversity, tons of things to do, and I have friends here. Im also trans, so I really appreciate how queer friendly the city is. That being said, UIUC is a really good school, and if I stay here, I’ll go to UIC in Chicago, which is supposedly not as good/highly ranked??\n\nI’d appreciate anyone’s opinion, especially if someone has similar experiences.')

('What is something you wish you had known before committing to UIUC', 'Prospective Students', 'Could be positive or negative, perhaps if you knew this when deciding your university, it would’ve made it much easier.')

('Job Prospects for CS', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi! I recently got admitted as a CS major in the college of engineering. I was wondering how the job / internship opportunities at UIUC compare to other schools particularly in the CS department. Also, is the 100k+ starting salary thing true ?')

('TIL The Safer Illinois app dropped exposure notifications because a furry pointed out a security flaw', 'COVID-19', '')

('Question about the CS program here.', 'Prospective Students', "Hey everyone. I'm a high school senior who was recently admitted here for CS+Chemistry and I've heard fantastic things about the school. It's an awesome school for sure and I would love to attend but I'm out of state and it's going to cost me about 57K per year. I can still afford that, but I just want to know if it's worth it. I also got into NC State for CS as well as UNC Chapel Hill which will both only cost me about 25K per year. \n\nI'm just a little worried about the difference in opportunity between NC State and UIUC Comp Sci. One of my dreams is to end up at a top company in Silicon Valley or NYC and work for companies like Google, Snapchat, and JP Morgan soon after college graduation. \n\nWould attending either school allow me to pursue these goals at a faster rate or does it not matter? In short, will I still have a really good chance at working at these companies if I attend either school? \n\nAny advice would be greatly appreciated. Thank you in advance.")

('Incoming grad - housings', 'New Student Question', "Hey, I'm a potential incoming grad student for uiuc starting this fall. As I'm trying make my decisions, I want to look into the housing options and school environment.\nI think I'll mostly stay in the agriculture &amp; bioengineering building, are there close housings (off campus) I can look into? Are there rental agencies yall recommend? \nI'm not from illinois so if I could get some insight about campus life at uiuc as well, that would be great :)\nThanks!!")

('Any Brain &amp; Cognitive Science (BSLAS) Majors Here?', 'New Student Question', "I was recently admitted to this major, but I'm not sure if this major supports my career goals. However, the interdisciplinary nature of Brain &amp; Cognitive Science (statistics, neuroscience, computer science, psychology, and more) makes me believe I will be able to structure my course pathway to align with my interests. In particular, I hope to develop AI models that emulate human intelligence, which means I would need to take lots of CS courses. I understand that CS courses are very competitive here and are not easily offered unless they are graduation requirements for your major. As a BCS major, how good are my chances of being able to take CS courses?")

('PSA: Stop asking about scholarships', 'Prospective Students', "I've seen so many posts about incoming students being angry or confused about the lack of scholarships they have received from UIUC. Well, welcome to UIUC, where they literally don't give you shit.\n\nTo be fair, there are departments that do have known scholarships, but even then they are difficult to get and may not be as high of an amount as you may have been expecting.\n\nIf you're relying on internal scholarships to put you through your undergrad, DO NOT COME HERE. It is so irritating seeing the same posts about people with 4.0 GPA and other shit complaining about not getting scholarships. Thousands of students here have similar, or better, stats and do not receive anything. \n\nPlease do not feel like you're entitled to a scholarship because of your highschool GPA or whatever because UIUC literally does not care. College is a place where nobody gives a shit about who you were in high-school. \n\nSo please, refer to your admitted majors department websites to enquire about potential scholarships, as well as waiting for financial aid with regards to any university scholarships available. If they don't have anything or do not reach out, then that's it. No complaining. Either go to another school or find external scholarships. \n\nAlso, please use the search bar. This happens every year.")

("PSA: We don't care about high school", 'Prospective Students', 'Quick PSA, because I am seeing a lot of new students bragging about their high school achievements, gpa and such. As cool as it is, we don\'t care.\n\nGreat, you graduated with a 6.9/4.0 gpa, wowee. Did I ask?  What is important is that you keep up the good work and go on a roll. \n\nSo, for the people that did really well in high school, surpass those achievements in college. You should not have "peaked" in high school. If you won your high school robotics competition, try to win one of the few nationwide (or even international) competitions. If you played varsity in highschool, I would like to see you on the team next semester.\n\nFor the people who hated high school, reinvent yourself. You are equally as capable of beating (and surpassing) the successful kids in highschool. I really don\'t care if you were unpopular back then. In fact, I don\'t think popularity exists anymore in college. Just be friendly with everybody that you meet and have a close group of friends that uplifts each other. I would consider that a huge dub in my book.\n\nSo yeah, I hope all have a great start at your time at UIUC! If you would like to talk about how to reinvent yourself, feel free to contact me :) Keep up the good work!')

('Scholarships (Freshman undergrad)', 'New Student Question', 'I haven’t gotten anything about scholarships so does that mean I didn’t get one? Which is kind of bullshit because my friend has like a 5.0+ weighted and also didn’t get one, while people with lower gpas did? Super confused about the situation.')

('How easy is it to maintain a 3.3 GPA in MechE?', 'Prospective Students', "I just found out to my surprise that i will get no need based financial aid despite my family making just under $70k a year. Im instate so tuition and fees are $38k a year. Fortunately i was given a large engineering scholarship and an AIM HIGH grant that adds up to around $20k a year. However, for the engineering scholarship if i get under a 3.3 gpa i will lose it. For the grant, a 2.5 gpa. Most of the money is from the engineering scholarship, and if i lose it, i will not be able to afford going to Grainger. Can i expect to keep a 3.3 gpa in engineering? To me (as a high school student) a 3.3 does not seem very high but I've heard that maintaining a good gpa in college is significantly harder than in high school. I really want to go to UIUC but if i don't keep the 3.3 GPA i will be screwed financially.")

('Are they hardly giving out Illinois Promise/commitment this year?', 'Prospective Students', 'My family makes around 45k a year and I only got 4k in financial aid. My yearly costs are 33k. Im just really disappointed, this was my dream school and so much of me wanting to go there was because I was eligible for free tuition. Now it’s possible I might not even be able to go :/')

('Parkland Pathway', 'Prospective Students', 'Hey guys! I’m a senior in high school and was wanting to know how the Parkland Pathway experience is.')

('Financial letter. 0 in scholarships?', 'Prospective Students', 'Got my financial letter today and received absolutely nothing in scholarships. Every other school I’ve applied to and got in has gave me their max in merit scholarships. Is this normal for uiuc? Im a in state student.')

('How to Appeal admission decision?', 'Prospective Students', 'I applied for CS and got rejected as an international male. I have an IB predicted 44/45 and decent ECs such as paid/research internships, couple of apps I developed for clients, club I lead and one I started.\n\nIf I wanted to appeal my decision, UIUC says that they don’t accept new information in regards to ECs and awards, but they do have a 300 word space for new information. What am I supposed to write in that?\n\nMy team recently won a national robotics competition and probably will get invited to an international event too. I think this is a significant award or EC which can be considered in my favour.\n\nThank you for your help in advance.')

('So I got rejected', 'Prospective Students', "And I have no clue where to start my appeal.\n\nWhen I received the news about my decision status it was... well, depressing. I applied to mechanical engineering and aerospace engineering, and I'm currently trying to appeal to AE as it is not as popular as ME, so I guess the chances could be higher. But I just don't know where to start. There's no more information I could add that could help me.\n\nI'm an international student from Colombia. During high school, I was the top student in my class, had a 3.84 GPA, and a 7.5 score on IELTS. I've also won three international competitions of robotics, two nationals and two regionals. I can speak Spanish, English and German. I've got university credits from three different universities. And, god, I was even admitted to two of the best universities in my own country. \n\nYet, I wasn't admitted.\n\nI suffer from ADHD and depression, so I was thinking about talking about how these were potential challenges during high school for obvious reasons... But I don't really think that would actually help me.\n\nDoes anybody know how to write a successful admission appeal?")

('Regarding admission into UIUC', 'New Student Question', "Hi!!\n\nCan anyone help which one should I choose UIUC or UT Austin for a master's in structural engineering? Also, does anyone has an idea what is the average class size and how reputed is UIUC for civil engineering?")

('Transfer Admissions Decision Date', 'Prospective Students', 'Hello, I’ve applied as a transfer for the Fall Semester, and I was just wondering roughly how long it takes for transfer admissions to release a decision. They said they release decisions from February to April which is weird because the deadline isn’t until March so… (unless it’s rolling admissions). Any insight would be appreciated.')

('New Student questions', 'New Student Question', "Hey everyone, My name is Jermaine Willis and I am a new student who will be attending the university of Illinois soon, I have a few questions that I've had for a while but I thought I'd ask them now before its too late and I'll be living on campus. \n\nFirst of all where can I find information on clubs, I was never active in high school so I want to get more active in college. \n\nSecond where can I find the best ice cream on campus, I get a hankering for ice cream every few days or so, same with falafel.\n\nThird where can I find the best assortment of women, I've been told I'm a stud and want to try and meet some fine women to hopefully spend my time in college with, not looking for quick flings looking for something serious. \n\nFourth, where is the best church on campus, I'm highly religious and need to convene with the Lord when I am in need. \n\nFifth, What does the Greek life look like, my older brother attends another university and he joined a fraternity and said its a good time so I am looking to try it out. \n\nFinally, what is the power allowance and ventilation in the dorms, I am looking to continue my bitcoin mining operation out of my dorm and I have about 16 cards at the moment and they draw a lot of energy.")

('fall transfer decision time', 'Prospective Students', 'i applied for transfer in the fall to uiuc. has anyone ever done the same anything and know how long it typically takes to get a decision?\nthanks!')

('Storm Chasing or Meteorology Clubs?', 'New Student Question', 'I am a senior in high school, but the odds of me going to UIUC right now are almost certain. In college I would love to be a part of a club that studies or maybe even goes out to chase tornadic storms. Is there anything like that offered at UIUC?')

('James Scholar Honors Program?', 'New Student Question', "I'm an incoming freshman engineering student who has recently been accepted into the James Scholar Honors Program. Is this program worth being a part of in college, or it is just extra unnecessary stress?")

('What is the James Scholar Honors Program? Is it worth it for MechE?', 'Prospective Students', 'I just recieved an email saying i was selected into the Grainger Engineering James Scholar Honors Program. I have no idea what this is so I was hoping you guys would know a bit about it. Is it worth joining? Are the benefits actually any good? Any downsides? I will be attending UIUC for MechE next fall so is it worth joining?')

('For those who did pre med here', 'New Student Question', 'Anyone have a picture of what classes they took for pre med? I kind of want a guide from student')

('Tuition Waiver do Dependents of Veterans.', 'New Student Question', 'I just received notification that I am approved for a four year tuition waiver any University of Illinois campus due to my fathers service in Iraq. I’m stoked! \nI’m just curious how this works or if anyone has had any similar experiences…\nAre federal grants still issues with tuition waivers? I typical get full FA due to low income and I have a child. \nMap grants?\nDon’t get me wrong- I am elated that I don’t have to take a federal loan out again while finishing my bachelors and then pursuing my masters. However I use the money for transportation, housing, books, laptop maintenance, etc that I typically get from school each semester.  \n\nAnyone have any insight? I searched on here and couldn’t find much info nor on their website.')

('Looking for a DM for in person DND campaign??', 'Prospective Students', 'Hey all! Looking for a dm. We have all the players. Let me know!')

('Any CS + X majors willing to share their stats?', 'Prospective Students', 'Prospective student here trying to get an idea of how competitive UIUC CS + X is.')

('CS + Ling waitlist', 'Prospective Students', 'Anyone know how the entire waitlist process works this year? Are the admissions rolling and do they come before the school year ends? And I know the odds of getting off are low for CS Eng, but what about CS + Ling?')

('Questions regarding actuarial science major', 'Prospective Students', "Hi r/UIUC, I was recently admitted for the act sci program and I had a few questions regarding the program: \n\n1. I read about UIUC applying for the UEC (University earned credit) program from the SOA. It seems that this is a pretty contentious issue among the actuarial community at least from looking at r/actuary. What's the general consensus of students and professors regarding the program then?\n2. Scrolling through the subreddit, it seems that act sci was starting to recover after losing an important faculty member a few years ago. What is the state of the program now?\n3. How does UIUC lean on SOA/CAS. Which route is more popular amongst students and which does the university better prepare you for?\n4. Finally, I'm an international student and was wondering about the difficulty of landing an actuarial job/internship. Can anyone from UIUC comment on that since act sci seems to be a major with many international students.")

('Where Can I get a good Haircut', 'New Student Question', 'Looking for a low fade + beard lineup, not looking to pay more than $30, can you guys recommend anyone?')

('Are college of liberal arts scholarships out yet?', 'New Student Question', 'Also, is it true that if you dont get and email, you got no scholarship? Thank you')

('I got in!!! Really excited :)', 'Prospective Students', '&amp;#x200B;\n\nhttps://preview.redd.it/rrepnyym4bn81.jpg?width=1280&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=b3f0461cbf930dbf7ac42d7a71b96ee861372f93')

('Systems Engineering worth it?', 'Prospective Students', ' Hey, I’m a prospective student and got into UIUC for Systems Engineering. I found that the courses were pretty much engineering oriented and had little to no cs classes. Is what I found right? Could I connect with any of you guys here if ur a systems engineering major?')

('How does a "campus wait list" work?', 'Prospective Students', "I got rejected from my first choice engineering and was put on a campus waitlist which apparently is for my second choice major, or DGS, or any other major in my area of interest. I am in-state and haven't seen others with this status. They either got accepted or waitlisted for first or second choice major. Has anyone got off this waitlist ever?")

('What are some things a bio premed student should consider before committing to UIUC?', 'Prospective Students', 'Saw a previous post that didn’t provide a ton of specific information. IoW, much does UIUC offer for premeds? I really need the truth. I’m waiting on UCLA admissions and considering these two colleges.')

('What are some things students should be aware of before committing to UIUC?', 'Prospective Students', 'What are any good things or bad things you think prospective students should know about while considering committing to UIUC? Or for students who decided on committing to UIUC, what is something important you think they should be aware of? Im almost certain im going to commit to UIUC for MechE (still waiting for financial aid), so anything specific about that or Grainger/engineering in general would be helpful too.')

('Should I appeal my waitlist?', 'Prospective Students', 'I was waitlisted for Computer Engineering. UIUC is my top choice, but I applied out of state. This summer, I am going to move to Illinois. Should I appeal for my second choice major, Electrical Engineering, or just accept the waitlist decision and hope for the best?')

('recording music at UIUC', 'Prospective Students', 'one man music project recently accepted to DGS (thank you admissions! &lt;3)\n\nare there any places on campus i can go to record music during the afternoon? what instruments/equipment would i be expected to bring if i usually have drums, guitar and bass in a track?\n\nrelative reddit newbie so apologies for any mistakes. looking forward to this fall at UIUC!')

('Stamps scholars interviews?', 'New Student Question', 'Hi, I’m a HS senior selected for the stamps interview on campus. Any idea how many are interviewed? I know 5 are selected. Thanks!')

('Confusion with accepted major', 'New Student Question', 'I applied for CS + Advertising, and when I got accepted, it said all the congrats messages and my major was listed as CS + Advertising. Later on, when I checked in my portal, it says I was accepted into CS in the Grainger College of Engineering. I later called up the admissions office and they said it might be a bug in the software because I didn’t even apply for that major, and I should wait for my letter, which will have my major printed on it. Now, when I got my acceptance letter, it says CS in The Grainger College of Engineering. What major am I in? (I mean I’ll take it LOL)')

('A question for the out of state Material Science engineering students - what is your take on the program? I would appreciate if you can share your experience. My son is accepted. Is it possible to change majors? Is it easy to get internships? Job prospects? Is the curriculum fun?', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Math placement test', 'New Student Question', 'I wanted to ask the strong uiuc community about this Alek placement test. I will be taking it this upcoming Wednesday and I need help on how difficult it could be and what I should do for the meantime (studying on specific topics!!) I didn’t take calculus my senior year because my counselor told me I didn’t need it (first mistake) and I took Ap statistics instead. If you guys could help me understand what material is on the test, that would be greatly appreciated.')

('Aleks placement test', 'New Student Question', 'So I’ve been told a couple weeks ago from uiuc that I had to take the alek math placement test. Because I get very anxious and stressed really fast, I signed up for the test online and I’ll be having it this upcoming Wednesday. I’ve taken precalc/trig junior year (online) and I’m taking statistics this year. I’m just worried I won’t get a good enough score to get into the math class I need to. I’m going into engineering undecided. Thank you for all inputs!')

('Advice for an incoming Systems engineering and design freshman', 'New Student Question', "My first choice was cs but unfortunately(maybe fortunately (◕ᴗ◕✿)) I got rejected. I got in for my second choice ie SED. I quite like the coursework and overall program and just wanted to get any advice SED students have for me. How were the internship and first job opportunities like? Favourite classes? Classes to avoid? and just the overall SED experience. I'm planning to also take cs as my secondary field option so any advice for that too is welcome.")

('Anyone majoring in Sustainable Design?', 'New Student Question', 'I recently got admitted to UIUC for sustainable design, which I am really passionate about. How is the faculty and opportunities offered?')

('james scholar program', 'New Student Question', 'does anybody know if the james scholar program through aces comes with financial aid for tuition? kinda counting on some aid \U0001f972')

('Transfer to gies school of business', 'New Student Question', 'Accepted the offer bc it’s one of the best schools in Illinois the only thing is I was admitted with a 3.8 gpa however my gpa is gonna go down this semester bc I anticipate I will end the year with two A’s and two B’s would they resend the offer? I’m worried lowkey')

('Speech and Hearing Sciences—how rigorous is the program at this school?', 'Prospective Students', 'UICU has such a great reputation but also known to be very academically challenging. Anyone with experience in this program or have friends in it? Can choose UICU or Illinois State for school for 2022 fall and as a solid middle of the road student with a hint of test anxiety')

('Getting lucky with an upperclassmen', 'New Student Question', "hey\n\nI'd like to hook up with an upperclassmen girl before break\n\nI'm a transfer freshie from miami and haven't been able to hookup with any girls older than me\n\ni'm asian and 5\\^7 \n\npics available on request")

('Questions about Grainger and UIUC in general', 'Prospective Students', "I am a current senior from an out of state high school that recently got admitted to UIUC's Grainger college, but need help with info about the university to make my final decision. As I have never gotten the chance to visit campus in person, nor do I have anybody around me that attended UIUC to talk to, I will ask a good amount of questions, so please bear with me. Thanks in advance!\n\nThe big question I've been pondering on for a while is the location. I am aware UIUC is in a college town, one of the best in the nation even. However, I was wondering if students ever grow tired of the college-bubble type atmosphere. Do students often visit Chicago, or is it a little too far with too little time? For the Grainger students, are the local internship opportunities solid? Do big tech companies from the west go and recruit for students often?\n\nI was also curious what the process was like for those who entered as an undeclared engineering student, as that was what I got admitted for. For those who did the same, did you eventually get into your desired majors after your first year? How common is it for somebody to be undeclared at Grainger?\n\nI am thinking either Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering, but not completely sure yet on which. Do a lot of the classes in CE and EE overlap at UIUC, and do CE students also take a handful of CS classes as well?")

('stick on phone wallet', 'New Student Question', 'where can i get an illinois silicone card holder to stick onto my phone? i got two from a campus event i went to but can’t find them. 😩 online doesn’t have any. anyone know where i could get them again on campus??')

('Many education trends, practices, and strategies are expected to make a wave in 2022. The future of schools and colleges seems to be changing at a rapid pace.', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Vegan options at UIUC', 'New Student Question', 'I’m probably going to go to UIUC in the fall and I’m worried about having vegan food in my meal plan. I really don’t want to live off of pasta and salad all year, and I don’t have the money to eat out constantly. What are the vegan options like? Can I eat at different dining halls regardless of which dorm I live in? Is there any way to store and cook my own food?')

('How to find roommates?', 'New Student Question', 'I’m an incoming freshman at uiuc, and I’m currently applying for next year’s dorms. How did you guys find compatible roommates? I heard of Facebook groups but I’m scared of meeting a random creep on there.')

('Possible D or F in Calc BC, will i lose my scholarship?', 'Prospective Students', "Im happy to say i recieved the Meche Outstanding Scholarship as well as an AIM High Grant! However im in kind of a predicament that i mentioned earlier about a week or two ago on this subreddit. Throughout highschool I've had straight A's in all honors and AP classes. However, over winter break i found out my moms stage 4 cancer spread to her lungs and abdomen and its taken a large toll on my mental health and academic performance. Currently i still have straight A's except for AP CALC BC where i have a D. The problem with bc calc is that since it builds ontop of itself and is extremely fast paced its really hard for me to catch up and stay focused so i dont think my grade will improve. I've never done so poorly in a class and now im worried that they'll take this scholarship and/or grant away. The grant and scholarship are 48k total which is a huge deal to me since i dont have much money. The scholarships say i need to maintain a 3.3 for it to be renewed so i have a feeling they wont be happy about this drastic dip in academic performance since its a scholarship based on academic performance. Will they take away this scholarship? What should I do?")

('Accepted into UIUC School of Social Work', 'New Student Question', 'Hey everyone! I was just accepted into UIUC as a transfer student (incoming as a Junior) and it is very exciting but nerve wrecking. I am a low income first generation college student so I’m not sure what to expect.\n\nWhat can you tell me about living on campus/university apartments? Pros/cons of both. What do you recommend? What is financial aid like for you? (I think I qualify for free tuition due to coming from a low income family) so what is that like? What is college life like? School/work/mental health balance? If you’re in the SW program what can you tell me about it?\n\nHonestly any information helps!\n\nThanks!')

('Transferring From Community College to UIUC', 'New Student Question', "So I'm considering transferring to UIUC from my local community college as a Junior this fall. I was accepted into UIUC and a few other universities in Illinois but this is definitely my #1 pick. I'm just curious what the transfer experience is like as well as the overall experience of being a student here. None of my family really went to a real university so everything is very new to me and I'm starting to get pretty nervous about it if I'm being honest. I was hoping I could hear some tips or reccomendations and basically what to expect academically, with housing choices, and how to also make it a fun experience with clubs/greek life or if I should even consider joining greek life as a 21 year old guy. I know I'm asking a lot of different questions here but any sort of response helps! Thanks in advance.")

('More Free N95s Available for Students', 'COVID-19', 'Additional N95 masks are available for undergraduate and graduate students. Students can receive up to 10 free masks at the following locations while supplies last:\n\n* Quad Shop – Illini Union\n* Illini Union Bookstore\n* Starbucks – Sidney Lu\n* Jitters – Law Building\n* 57 North – SDRP\n* Urbana South Market – PAR\n* TerraByte – ISR')

('Transfer to CS+Econ', 'Prospective Students', 'I’m currently a freshman at UW-Madison studying Computer Science. I’m an out of state student who lives in Illinois, so I would like to try to transfer to UIUC which is much cheaper for my family. However, I can’t find info into transfer to CS+Econ, only to Computer Science. Can anyone help me figure out what I am missing? Thanks!')

('how tough is switching from LAS to Environmental Engineering @ Grainger?', 'Prospective Students', 'i really really love uiuc but i didn’t know that civil and environmental engineering was the same department while applying early action. so i applied and was admitted to the earth, society and environmental science major in LAS. how tough is the process of switching to grainger? specifically for environmental engineering')

('Financial Aid', 'New Student Question', 'I’m class of 2026. My financial aid package has not been released yet. Has anyone else’s? I want it there before I accept my offer.')

('Major and Intercollegiate transfer', 'New Student Question', "I have been accepted into UIUC at the College of Education with Learning and Education Studies as my major and I have accepted my admissions offer. \nI applied to UIUC to eventually become a high school English teacher but I didn't know that for UIUC you needed to first major in your desired subject so I would have to be at the LAS college with an English Major. Since I already accepted my offer for the wrong major, is there anything I can do to change it before the semester begins? Or am I stuck having to do that and then transfer.")

('UIUC CS Admitted Student Here!', 'New Student Question', "Hey guys, I just want to say that I am incredibly grateful to be accepted into the CS program at UIUC. I just had a few questions that I was not able to find the answer to on the sub's wiki.\n\n1. How severe is the grade inflation/deflation for the CS classes in Grainger?\n2. How are the Co-Op, Internship, and on-campus recruitment at UIUC for CS? (I looked online and found minimal information)\n3. Are there any discord, Instagram, Snapchat groups for UIUC CS Class of 2026?\n\nI would really appreciate it if you guys could answer any of the questions posted above! Thank you for your time in advance!")

('Enrollment date for incoming graduate student this fall? I won’t be able to get the TB blood test till August so I’m wondering if enrollment starts before then (won’t be able to enroll until I take the test)', 'New Student Question', '')

('If you submitted a decision appeal for CS/CS + X, what kind of stuff did you write about in the additional information form?', 'Prospective Students', "I was waitlisted for Stats &amp; CS. I just got off the phone with an admissions counselor, he said that my appeal likely wouldn't get accepted if I didn't have any new information, which I'm not sure how to fill out since I can't submit new grades, awards, or LORs. If anyone else is/was in the same boat as me, how'd you go about it?\n\nAlso, if my appeal is denied, am I denied as a whole for Stats &amp; CS, or would I still be on the waitlist?")

('Cults on campus', 'New Student Question', 'Philosophy TA said there used to be cults on campus. Looks like there were a few murders but what cult was it tied to?')

('Recently accepted (Out of State): Recommendations for Campus &amp; Housing?', 'Prospective Students', "Hello,\n\n1. I was recently accepted to the Carle Illinois School of Medicine at UIUC, and will be attending a 2-day session in April. I also plan to spend some additional time (\\~3-5 days?) to explore the campus, find available places for housing, and gain familiarity with the surrounding Urbana-Champaign before moving. My question is, how long do you think it would take to accomplish this if I visited on-campus? Would 3-5 days be sufficient? Or would 1-2 days be fine? I ask because I am pretty financially tight right now, and would rather do a shorter trip if possible.\n2. Does anyone have a guide for housing/best places to study for prospective students? I'm ideally looking for a quiet area that is close to the medical campus, while still being affordable (\\~&lt;$600 per month if possible).")

('MS in Analytics Statistics', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi! I recently got an admit to the program! \n\nCan anyone tell my how good it is? How are the courses? Class strength? Faculty support? Opportunities? Etcetera..\n\nThank you so much in advance!!')

('Appeal for Major I have not applied to', 'New Student Question', 'Hey guys. I got into UIUC!! YAY! I got in for my secondary major which is Systems Engineering. I applied to CE for my first major. Can I make an appeal to switch from systems engineering to CS?')

('Internationals or people who lived outside of us before coming here did you get shipped uiuc stickers after getting admitted?', 'Prospective Students', 'I really want them and I’m international\U0001f972 also if u did how long after accepted did they come.')

('Concerns about offer rescission', 'New Student Question', 'I am an international student studying A-level curriculum, and just got admitted by UIUC Gies.  In the first semester of senior year, I got As for my business, economics, math and physics courses, but I got a D for my language course called A2 GP. There\'s no exams for this course but we are required to write a 5000 word essay and submit it at the end of the semester to have a grade. It\'s a language course, so I thought that as long as I\'m not having trouble with the use of English (and I don\'t have any trouble with that as I got 110 for TOEFL), my grade would be fine. The truth was just opposite. I tried to talk to the teacher and the headmaster, but they said: "that\'s how things work for A2GP!"I admit that I didn\'t fully follow teacher\'s instructions, but those who did also got Cs, Ds, and even Es. (Only 2 out of 25 students got As, the rest of us got C D and E) Frankly speaking, I\'m puzzled, and it\'s highly possible that I would get another D in the second semester. I don\'t know if this would cause my offer to be rescinded.')

('Incoming Graduate Student from South for MSA Program in June. What do I need to expect?', 'New Student Question', 'I completed my undergrad in Oklahoma, but what exactly would I need to adjust to when I come in the summer? I don’t want to be unprepared for the Midwest culture shock. \n\nI thought of a few aspects, but let me know if there’s anything I missed. \n\n1. Campus Culture\n\n2. Best food places\n\n3. Best Graduate On-Campus/Off-Campus Living\n\n4. Traditions\n\n5. What/where/who to avoid\n\n6. What to put up with\n\n7. Sporting Events/Concerts/Conventions to see/attend\n\n8. Anything I missed')

('When did you receive your HEERF III COVID Grant for Graduate Students?', 'COVID-19', "Hi! I'm wondering when did it get sent out if you received it?\n\nThanks!")

('UIUC vs UWMadison Poli Sci', 'Prospective Students', "Hi there y'all. I got accepted into both UIUC and UWMadison for poli-sci and I wanted help deciding between the 2. I am visiting both next week, both are amazing the main difference is between in state and out of state tuition, and I get credit for both more or less for my ap classes and dual enrollment classes. Any general pros or cons on the university itself or specifically the political science program? Thank you!")

('I genuinely don’t mind the Safer Illinois checks, but', 'COVID-19', 'at the very least, stop randomly signing me out of my Illinois app and forcing me to sign back in while I stand in the doorway of whatever building I’m trying to enter')

('How much work is a dual degree in gies and LAS?', 'New Student Question', "Incoming freshman here. I have been accepted into Econometrics at LAS. I have heard that Gies career services and resources are miles better than LAS. I have also looked at the finance course and I really like it. How viable is it to pursue a Dual Degree in Econometrics and Finance? \n\nI will be coming in with the following credits:\n\nECON 102 (3 hours)  \nECON 103 (3 hours) \n\nMATH 220 (5 hours) \n\nPHYS 211 (4 hours)  \nPHYS 212 (4 hours) \n\nHow much work is it to do the degree? is it manageable? I really want to keep the OPT extension that Econometrics offers me so I probably won't transfer. I wanna go into consulting so I hope to join the IBC too.\n\nWill I be able to access gies resources and facilities with just a minor? Any input would be greatly appreciated!")

('Admitted students: class of 2026', 'New Student Question', "So is there a discord server or something for this year's admitted students?")

('Question about Facilities during Spring Break', 'New Student Question', "Hello, this is my first semester on campus so I'd like to know whether ARC, and any dining halls are going to be open during spring break? \n\n&amp;#x200B;\n\nThanks!")

('Has anyone here applied test-optional', 'Prospective Students', 'I just recently discovered that U of I has extended their test optional policy until 2023. I was wondering, will not submitting test scores negatively impact your application? My GPA is relatively decent however my test scores are not nearly as good.')

('social skills', 'New Student Question', 'tips on approaching people in hopes of making a new friendship? i’m just going to have to put myself out there, but i don’t know how to approach and idk how “hey i’m looking for new friends, would you be interested?“ would be taken. i also don’t know who i’m able to approach (what if they have a gf or something so they don’t want female friends). the idea is to avoid rejection as that’s awkward &amp; another hit to my confidence. i just need to talk to people, but i don’t remember how to spike conversation. if someone came up to you when you were studying and asked to sit at the same table as you (even if others are available), how would you take that? i recharge off of human connection and i’m feeling really low not knowing anyone here. i’ve read the posts already on here regarding how to make friends- they don’t help. these are the questions i need answered. i’d really, really appreciate it. \U0001f972')

('advice on making friends? :’ (', 'New Student Question', 'i’m a new transfer here and got rejected from the program i was banking on getting into to make friends. i haven’t met anyone (and live alone) and it’s making me nervous about my time here. obviously as a transfer it’s a little different (i did join the transfer RSO thing), but how did you make friends when you first got here, especially if you didn’t know anyone? do you think being a transfer puts me at less of an advantage or people who aren’t would judge? feeling super isolated and discouraged so any help is appreciated')

('How much should I get. In ib to not get offer rescinded?', 'Prospective Students', 'I got into uiuc info science with a 42/45 ib and will most likely commit. How much should I get in the actual board to not get my app rescinded? Would I be fine if I drop to like a 35 worst case?')

('Industrial Design', 'Prospective Students', 'I just into industrial design at UIUC, does anyone have any experience with this major here?')

('How to get the access to the ECEB?', 'New Student Question', 'I am currently an ECE meng student and have lots of ece classes. When I try to use my i-card to access the automatic door on northwest of the ECEB, it does not work. So, in normal days, I can only enter the ECEB through the southwest or the main east entrance because they are not locked! How can I get all access to the ECEB.')

('Math/CS vs. Stats/CS', 'Prospective Students', 'So, with plans on wanting to pursue a career in AI/ML/DS or Quant firms, I am having trouble deciding  which program will help me reach my goals. I fear that taking Stats/CS will limit me with my options due to its increased specificity of Math being Stats. Is the notion correct? Any help will be much appreciated! Thanks!')

('Mental Problems and Medicine', 'New Student Question', 'Hello, who can I get help from at school regarding the mental problems I have? I was receiving drug treatment in my hometown, but I do not have any opportunity here other than school insurance, I wonder what can I do?')

('Anyone know where to get merch?', 'New Student Question', 'I recently got into u of i and i’m looking to buy merch to rock at school to flex on them classmates. Everyone be rocking their school swag except me and I wanna be included in the fun. I’m OOS btw so I gotta order online for it to be shipped (I’m visiting in april so I can wait until then, but idk where on campus to cop merch). Also is there merch for each department? I want merch for my department if possible (cs or grainger merch).')

('Is there any benefit to committing early?', 'Prospective Students', "For the past 2 years UIUC has been my dream school for MechE. Im grateful to say that last week I found out i was admitted into grainger for MechE! I'm almost certain that I'm going to commit to UIUC, but part of me wants to wait until ivy decisions are released just to see what happens. Even if i get into an ivy, im pretty certain i would still prefer UIUC. However if there is no downside of waiting to commit id rather just wait until i hear back from the ivys just to be safe incase i for some reason suddenly change my mind. So are there any benefits of committing early or should i wait? If there are any benefits i would be happy to commit immediately.")

('my fellow admitted oos first year engineers, pls help!', 'Prospective Students', "I got an email about a virtual info session for admitted Grainger students (for out of state students) set for 3/15 a while back (3/3), and I was wondering if anyone has the link to the zoom meeting so I can still join? The website doesn't show the link anymore lmao. Thanks in advance!")

('Transfer to Computer Engineering', 'Prospective Students', 'Hey all, I am a senior high school student wanting to pursue CE (Computer Engineering). I did get accepted by UIUC, but my second choice which was Engineering Mechanics. I’ve heard that from Fall2022 UIUC is stopping transfers into CS. Is it possible to transfer to Computer Engineering at UIUC second year?')

('UIUC or other school?', 'New Student Question', "Hello all, I am currently a senior in high School who is navigating the college decision process.\xa0\xa0My family and I have been awaiting decisions from various colleges throughout the past four months and while we await decisions from UC's (where I am extremely hopeful) our current dilemma is as follows: I Was admitted to UIUC in their Division of General Studies (DGS) and have several computer science acceptances (Ex. IU - Luddy direct admission). I had originally applied to the Computer\xa0Science + X program in UIUC.\n\nNeed advice on the following: UIUC has been my dream school and computer science is my passion. Should I take a chance with DGS in UIUC and try and transfer out to the Computer Science\xa0+ X programs OR should I pick a school where I have been directly admitted to the computer science program? Is there anyone out there who has transferred to a Computer Science\xa0+ X program from DGS and is the probability\xa0high of making it as long as I can maintain my grades? I am worried that if I pick UIUC I might be forced to transfer out of UIUC in a few semesters if I can't\xa0make a CS+X major OR be pushed into a major that is not computer science related.\n\nPlease advise.\n\nThank you.")

('Are NetMath exams taken through NOES proctored?', 'New Student Question', 'It’s my first time taking a class through netmath and I’m a bit confused. Are exams taken through NOES proctored? Also, why would students choose to pay out of pocket for proctorU? Sorry this is a basic question, I’m just out of the loop.')

('Question about Success of Appeals', 'Prospective Students', 'I’m currently a high school senior who applied to UIUC with a first choice major of Computer Science and a second choice major of Electrical Engineering. I was rejected for Computer Science but admitted into Electrical Engineering. I was interested in appealing my first choice major and changing it to a CS+X degree. (I’m probably considering CS+Economics) The question I have is how successful are appeals at UIUC in general, and how likely is it that my specific appeal would go through? Finally, how difficult is it to transfer into a CS+X degree from Electrical Engineering if I choose to go that route?')

('Should I retake General Chemistry 2 or take Organic Chemistry at Parkland College?', 'New Student Question', 'I’m a current high school senior who just got accepted to UIUC for Animal Sciences. I’m in a program at my local community college that supposedly UIUC accepts credit for, and I’ve taken General Chemistry 1 and General Chemistry 2 through it. \n\nThe issue is I’m really worried about taking Organic Chem. I’m not great at chemistry because all of the chemistry classes I’ve taken have been half online except for labs and exams. I’m considering the idea of taking Organic Chem through Parkland so if I didn’t do great in it my UIUC gpa wouldn’t be affected and I’d still get the credit. If I were to take Organic Chem at UIUC I feel like I’d need to retake General Chemistry 2 so I know what university chemistry is like compared to community college, but I’d prefer not to do that. \n\nIf anyone has any advice I’d really appreciate the help!')

('How hard is to get accepted into the college of LAS', 'New Student Question', 'I got accepted into uiuc but i want to change my major before I attend in the fall, so how hard would it be to get accepted into bcog?')

('Help decide between UMich and UIUC.', 'New Student Question', 'I got into UMich and UIUC As Junior transfer Student. Fortunately, UIUC offer me a place for CS + Economics. Whereas, UMich offer me a place in LSA Undecided.\n\nI’m Illinois resident currently attending Community College. I’m having trouble deciding which school should I have to choose. I know both schools are really awesome. As first generation student, I want to get some advice on college…\n\nTuition\nIllinois = Illinois commitment \nUMichigan = 30k (possible LSA transfer scholarship 10k~20k)')

("How do I catch up with the CS legends I'm batchmates with?", 'New Student Question', "I'll be honest. I'm an Asian (Indian) International student, y'all know how tough the competition is for us, we're overrepresented. Every single of my fellow '26 admits have these wonderful extracurriculars. I was speaking to a *rejected* guy the other day, who was talking about his ML internship at NUS..... I had to google what ML meant. I mean I knew what Machine Learning was, but I'm just so inexperienced that I didn't know it was just commonly called ML. Some of my fellow admits have international CS olympiad medals, research at t10 universities, FIRST robotics, the list goes on and on. I had ONE CS extracurricular, I taught kids basic programming through scratch and thunkable. I also completed Stanford online's CS50 course on edX, which if you've gone through, you'll realize how ridiculously easy it is. I genuinely am stumped as to what got me in. I wrote my activity essay about failing to jailbreak my iPhone in the sixth grade. And I wrote this another essay about human centered AI to safe refineries such as the one my dads works in. I genuinely have no clue what got me in, I'm not low income and have didn't apply for aid.  I fear I'll noticeably be the worst, and if ranks are published, I'll probably be at the bottom of the class. This is not imposter syndrome, this is the truth. \n\nCurrent computer related majors at UIUC, I need your help. How the f\\*ck do I catch up with these absolute Gods? I'm looking for this basic checklist type thing which I should accomplish before starting this fall. Here's my current skillset/experience:\n\n4 years of Python, 2 years of JS, and SQL since the sixth or seventh grade. I did actively take part in an ML project for traffic safety, but I was only selected to be a part of that team as I was the only one who had written a research paper before (particle physics, even in that project I handled none of the programming parts). Was it technically a CS extracurricular? Yes, but I didn't program shit, all I did was come up with the idea but none of the programming. I'm currently learning kotlin and swift, and also trying to build my second ML project, a sudoku solver. I think my experience displays an understanding of the logic part of programming but idk syntax for shit. \n\nHelp me out guys please this post is not a joke")

('University Merch', 'New Student Question', 'Looking for the cheapest place to buy uni merch, preferably near campus or downtown\nThankyou!')

('What was your experience as a transfer student and what advice can you give?', 'Prospective Students', 'For all you transfer students, how was your experience as a transfer? I’m looking into transferring to UIUC from DePaul in Chicago as I’m kind of disappointed and unfulfilled. As a transfer were you able to acclimate pretty quickly and find your herd? Also I’m thinking about switching my major to something completely different and a lot of the programs require that I take classes prior to the summer if I want to transfer into that program (looking at the transfer guide). Sorry if I’m asking a lot this seems to have turned into a question/advice post. Finally, any transfer students majoring in marketing/advertising?')

('Is everthing here geared towards CS/engineering?', 'New Student Question', 'I recently got admitted for econ and quantitative econs. I was wondering if the general vibe is CS/eng or is there some of a humanities vibe as well?')

('Transfer within Grainger', 'Prospective Students', 'How difficult is a transfer within Grainger from Industrial to Mechanical Engineering? Thanks in advance!')

('An international student faces the same issues as other students in selecting a part-time job to meet his or her financial necessities. Not having prior work experience makes the process more difficult.', 'Prospective Students', '')

('Admitted student asks a buncha questions :))', 'New Student Question', "Hey y'all! I was recently admitted to UIUC CS + Statistics Major as an international student! I have done research about the school and am growing especially fond of it. I've gotten a lot of my questions answered, but I would also like to ask the students (you guys teehee) about what it's really like. Any input are greatly appreciated! :)\n\n**Academics**\n\n1-1: what distinguishes UIUC's cs program from that from other prestigious cs schools? how is it different? in what ways does UIUC excel in this field?\n\n1-2: is the CS here crazy hard? are cs classes absurdly hard? is it do-able being a non-genius, everyday student?\n\n1-3: do professors actually care abt their classes and how students are performing in general?\n\n1-4: are there weed-out classes?\n\n1-5: are classes graded on a curve? grade-inflation? grade-deflation?\n\n1-6: are office hours accessible? are TAs helpful/committed in helping student? how often are they full given the large student body -- will they ever be full?\n\n1-7: about how large are classes? will it be as crazy as berkeley (for example) with hundreds of people per class?\n\n1-8: are classes often full? is it likely to not get into a course?\n\n1-9: as for job placements and internships, do companies recruit a high proportion of cs students on campus? or do most still have to apply by themselves?\n\n1-10: are there any \\*hidden\\* cs opportunities within UIUC?\n\n&amp;#x200B;\n\n**Extracurriculars:**\n\n2-1: are there research opportunities for students (freshman, sophomores) available\n\n2-2: how likely will professors let students join in on research?\n\n2-3: if i'm not mistaken, there are almost clubs for anything, right?\n\n&amp;#x200B;\n\n**Miscellaneous:**\n\n3-1: is there actually a lot to do at UIUC? i'm trying to shake off the preconception that UIUC is in the middle of nowhere and that it's just a cornfield\n\n3-2: is UIUC and Champaign safe? are there frequent crimes, etc.?\n\n3-3: are student recreational centers packed with people? would i find trouble finding spots? i’d like to go play some ball or go to the gym every now and then.\n\n3-4: is the best way for an international student is to fly to chicago then take the school accommodated bus to UIUC?\n\n&amp;#x200B;\n\nIt would be great if the answers could be referred back to the number listings of the questions (ex. 1-1: blah blah... 2-3: blah)\n\nThank you guys so much for helping me out! I greatly appreciate every ounce of effort put into each response :)")

('Is psychology a BA or BS', 'Prospective Students', 'I have been admitted to the psychology program at UIUC. I am really interested in the program but I do not understand the term BSLAS degree. does a BSLAS degree equal to a normal BS degree or is that different?')

('Things to see when visiting?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi, I’m going to be visiting uiuc tomorrow and was wondering if there are any things I should check out in particular, beyond the normal stuff like dorms and dining.')

('Is the rumour that UIUC has a single digit acceptence rate for ChemE true? If not, what do you think it is?', 'New Student Question', '')

('Surviving Engineering as an average student', 'New Student Question', "Hey guys, I was accepted to Grainger for Civil Engineering. I am an average student and I'm afraid that I will struggle in class. I wanna know if UIUC has a cooperative environment where I can study with friends and if you guys have tips on how to succeed in the degree. Thank you!")

('Anyone got pics of the new MEB?', 'New Student Question', "This school sucks at marketing itself; I got in for MechE, and most likely am going to commit because no way am I going to let go of an elite program with instate tuition. I'm looking online for pictures of the new Sydney Liu building but am literally turning up with blank. There's tons of pictures of the exterior, but nothing about the new makerspaces, machine shop, classrooms, woodworking shop, and other cool shops and classrooms. I can't go out to Champaign for another month or so, so if anyone has any pics of the building, it'd be appreciated if you could post them down in the comments or DM 'em. Just to ease my burning curiosity :)\n\nI know it's a little bit of a weird request, I'd appreciate anything.")

('Systems engineering and design - class size? Ratio female vs male?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi :) I was admitted into UIUC for systems engineering and design. I was wondering what the average class size is? Like how many students take systems engineering each year? Also does anyone know the ratio between female to male? I’m a international female student and I kinda expect the classes to be mostly male dominated but was just wondering. Thank you :))')

('University Response to COVID Survey', 'COVID-19', 'Hey everyone!\n\nMy group and I are conducting a university COVID-19 response survey in hopes of identifying possible improvements for a group assignment in UP 316.\n\nWe would really appreciate if anyone took the time to fill out the survey. It should take less than 10 minutes!\n\nAgain, thank you! \n\n[COVID-19 Policies Questionnaire](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd4LgxYvEL9HbG6Ln7qjqismSN9qc67O0t2Ni-XNcRs-sT2ig/viewform?usp=sf_link)')

('Why is the Chemical Engineering in LAS?', 'Prospective Students', 'My son got an offer from UIUC chemical engineering. Would he be able to change his major to mechanical engineering if he changes his mind? How difficult is the transfer process? Does he have to finish his freshman year as a Chem Eng major first?')

('UIUC 2026 Discord Server?', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi I got admitted to uiuc class of 2026 and I’m planning to commit. Is there any discord for admitted students or for the uni?')

('Masks are not required in buildings that have classrooms except in class during class hours, no?', 'COVID-19', 'Because I just had some WSA woman demand I put one on.')

("Can I get Illinois commitment if I'm 24 yrs old?", 'Prospective Students', "I turn 24 in June and want to attend uiuc in Fall. My efc is about 1000 and I'm considered an independent according to FAFSA. \n\nCould I get Illinois commitment?")

("transfer: given credit for data structures even though I haven't taken the class..?", 'New Student Question', 'hey, \n\nI recently got admitted to the cs + chem program as a transfer. Looking at my course equivalency eval, it seems as if I got credit for cs 225, which is data structures and algorithms at UIUC. I have never taken this class before and am not familiar at all with the material here. \n\nI think I know why UIUC made the mistake. It\'s probably because I took a class titled "Programming and Intro Data Structures", which kinda sounds similar to ds&amp;a, but the course I took is actually a pre-req to my school\'s equivalent to ds&amp;a. \n\nSo my question is about what I should do in this situation. I know that UIUC considers major preparation quite heavily for transfer admission, so do you think telling them that I actually haven\'t taken a cs225 equivalent will cause me to be rescinded? I\'m considering just taking the class at my uni the summer before my hypothetical enrollment at UIUC.')

('masks in classrooms', 'COVID-19', 'ok so…covid doesn’t exist unless it’s in class. cool. love it. i love not having to wear a mask while i run to the bathroom to pee or to the gym. ISU and many other schools are announcing that there will be no more masks PERIOD a couple weeks after spring break. do you think UIUC will follow considering the mask mandate in class makes no sense?')

('PREP to CEE/Environmental Engineering', 'Prospective Students', "I know there are like infinite amounts of posts relating to PREP and transferring to Grainger, but I could use some guidance.\n\nI'm currently a freshman in the college of ACES as an NRES major (Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology concentration) and I'm realizing it might not really be for me. In terms of interests, Environmental Engineering seems much more up my alley-- to be honest, I wish I applied to that in the first place :( -- and I am interested in applying for PREP. Environmental Engineering seems like it wouldn't be quite as difficult to get into as something like MechE, but of course still very difficult (I've seen all the anti-PREP posts on here and it's a little disillusioning). \n\nHonestly, what are my chances? I got a very good GPA last semester, and am aiming to get a similarly solid GPA this semester too. I have environmentally-related experiences under my belt (undergraduate research at the Research Park, animal keeper internship this summer), and my current major is highly environmentally focused too. In terms of classes, I have only Calc 1 under my belt but I'm considering doing Calc 2 over the summer. I am looking to proficiency exam out of PHYS 100 by the end of this semester, and my CHEM progress is pretty solid. I also have most of my other Gen Ed requirements completed.\n\nLet me know what you guys think, is this even worth considering?")

('Is there any chance that a freshman living near the University can live at home instead of living in the dorms?', 'New Student Question', 'I live close to the university, but the website is telling me that “freshman are required to live in approved housing.” My parents want to save money by allowing me to live at home. Do you think I would be able to write an email requesting to be a commuter or is it impossible?')

('Mask Mandate &amp; Respecting Personal Space', 'COVID-19', 'I work at a store inside a campus building and if there’s one thing I’ve noticed today after the mask mandate being lifted is that my staff was EXTREMELY uncomfortable with the lack of personal space some customers were giving us. If you’re ordering from any place please don’t lean over counters because you don’t want to speak up, please don’t stand DIRECTLY next to food service employees as they make your food/drinks, please don’t walk into employee designated areas just to grab something yourself, and please don’t touch other peoples food/drinks AND THEN ask if it’s yours 😅 I think this is all pretty common sense but all of these things happen multiple times a day at my store. \n\nWe’re very appreciative of those who are still choosing to wear masks and/or are respecting social distancing thank you to everyone who is. Especially after our boss essentially told us to “brace for impact” we’re all pretty uncomfortable right now and are terrified of cases spiking again.')

('Regarding Dorm Selection', 'New Student Question', 'Hey guys, I have recently received admission to the College of LAS at UIUC! I am also planning to attend with a major in biochemistry and minor in statistics. Out of curiosity, what first-year dorms would you recommend? Housing budget will not be an issue in my case, and I am just wondering if any selections have "red flags" or are substandard in retrospect. Please let me know, thank you!')

('Is it too late to join RSO’s', 'New Student Question', 'I’ve been meaning to all year but i just never got around to it and i feel like it might be awkward to join one now. Also what are some cool rso’s i can join now or next semester?')

('Why do we still have Covid police at entrances?', 'COVID-19', 'What a massive waste of money to pay people to sit and look for building access which literally every person on campus has. What is the purpose of them checking the app besides wasting everybody’s time?')

('Need help with post-college plans as an international student', 'New Student Question', "Hey illinis, I am an Indian student recently been accepted into the Gies college of business for the undergraduate business program. I must say I am extremely happy with my acceptance as UIUC is an amazing mixture of strong academics, connections, and college life. Although, there are a few things that are of concern to me. As I come from a middle class family, getting a job after college is really important for me. My interest is in Finance. If i pursue the BS in Finance. I can only stay in the USA for 1 year on the OPT, this will not be enough to get my return on investment and getting a master's right after would be really costly. And, i only have 1 year to appear for the H-1B visa process. \n\nAs an international student at UIUC, what are your plans after college and if you're staying in the USA how do you plan to do it? Also, should i consider getting my major changed to Econometrics which is classified as STEM? I am interested in Econ anyway. I predominantly choose to apply to Gies due to its reputation so will switching be worth it? \n\nI would really be thankful for some advice.")

('I would like to know how safe it is.', 'Prospective Students', "Hi. I just got accepted to the college of engineering for systems engineering. While I'm still waiting for other acceptances I am leaning quite heavily towards uiuc. But I do have a concerns about how safe it cause I've heard things about Champaign that are scaring me. Even though I'm from Karachi and that is far more dangerous I'm still a bit worried. If anyone could let me know their experiences it would be much appreciated thanks.")

('Exchange - Fall 2022 housing.', 'Prospective Students', 'Hi, Im coming to UIUC on exchange for fall 2022 semester. Im looking for somewhere to live from August - December. Does anyone know places that offer semester leases for anywhere from 2-8 people? 6 Girls 2 Boys.')

('Any law students here?', 'Prospective Students', 'Can I DM you about some questions related to the law school here and your experiences so far?')

('Class of 2026 GC', 'New Student Question', 'Hey guys! Leave your snaps below and I’ll make a gc for those who are considering/ are committed!!')

('costco trip and membership', 'New Student Question', 'would like a ride to costco any time this week and usage of your membership\n\nwill be compensated')

