https://osfa.illinois.edu/process/eligibility/
Eligibility – Office of Student Financial Aid
Office of Student Financial Aid
Eligibility
In order to receive need-based aid, you must meet certain requirements.
Eligibility Requirements for Federal & State Aid
In order to be eligible for federal and state aid, the following requirements must be met:
Eligibility for Institutional Aid
In order to be eligible for need-based institutional financial aid you must meet all of the federal and state requirements listed above.  On a case-by case basis, you may be asked to provide documentation from your parent(s) or other individuals not listed on the FAFSA to help us determine your eligibility for institutional need-based funds.  We will not be able to complete your official financial aid award until all requested documentation has been received and reviewed by OSFA.
Determining Financial Aid
Financial aid programs were established on the premise that the primary responsibility for paying educational expenses rests with you and your family. Those who lack the necessary resources to pay these educational expenses are encouraged to apply for financial aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This information is used to determine your financial aid eligibility.
The following formula is used to determine whether you are eligible for need-based financial aid:
Cost of Attendance – Expected Family Contribution = Financial Need
Our office establishes student expense budgets that are used to calculate financial aid eligibility and to provide you and your family with a reasonable estimate of your cost of attendance at Illinois. These budgets include allowances for tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation, and personal and miscellaneous expenses. They are based on what are considered reasonable but modest costs after surveying segments of our student population.
The difference between the cost of attendance and the expected family contribution is considered financial need. Our office will assist you and your family in trying to meet your financial need by offering a combination of grants, scholarships, loans, and employment opportunities. If you have no financial need, you are still eligible to be considered for non-need-based scholarships, loans, and employment.
International Students
University policy requires international students to have adequate resources to cover their educational expenses. Students holding J1 or J2 exchange visitor visa or F1 or F2 student visa are not eligible for federal or state aid, but they may still be considered for departmental awards and alternative loans. F-1 visas allow very limited opportunities for students to work at the university. For more information, see our international section.
Section Menu

Office of Student Financial Aid
							Student Services Arcade
							620 East John Street
							Champaign IL 61820
							217-333-0100 (phone)
							217-265-5516 (fax)
						

							Lobby Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central) Monday – Friday
							Temporary Phone Hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central)  Monday – Friday
							Email us anytime: finaid@illinois.edu
							For a list of Financial Aid Office staff, please see the Campus Directory 


							Helpful Resources
						
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Web Privacy Notice

