https://osfa.illinois.edu/process/checking-your-status/
Check Your Status – Office of Student Financial Aid
Office of Student Financial Aid
Check Your Status
UI-Integrate Self-Service will be used throughout your time at the university to view and update Personal Information, Financial Aid, Registration & Records and Account Billing Information.
How to Access
Newly admitted undergraduate students may use myIllini to access UI-Integrate Self-Service. Select the link ‘High five, you submitted an app!’ in the Apply section to access the checklist which includes a link to the Financial Aid Notification.
Newly admitted graduate and professional students must claim and set their NetID and NetID password to access UI-Integrate Self-Service. To claim your NetID, you need your Activation Code and your University Identification Number (UIN). This is available to undergraduate students when you log into myIllini and for graduate students in the email sent to you by your department. If you need help with your NetID and NetID Password, contact the Technology Services Help Desk at 217-244-7000 or consult@illinois.edu.
Read more about the NetID and computing.
Due to FERPA laws, the service desk(s) are only able to help continuing and prospective students with ID and password issues; they are not able to provide information to parents of continuing or prospective students.
For the most efficient answers to your financial aid questions, we encourage you to monitor your status online before contacting our office.
Check Your Status
What’s Included
When checking your status, you’ll have access to the following information:
How We Communicate With You
OSFA uses both email and postal mail addresses to communicate with you regarding your financial aid status. It’s your responsibility to ensure that our office has your correct information at all times and that you read and respond to what’s sent to you.
You can update your address information in the Personal Information section of UI-Integrate Self-Service. Below are the 3 types of addresses included there:
Permanent Address
Your permanent address is defined as where you live when you’re not enrolled at Illinois (usually where your parents live). Your permanent and mailing addresses can be the same. We send all correspondence to your permanent address until the week before the fall semester begins. During fall and spring semesters, from mid-August to early May, we send all correspondence to your mailing address.
Mailing Address
Your mailing address is your local or campus address; it can be the same as your permanent address. We send information to your mailing address from mid-August to the first week of May, unless you have a residence hall address. Many university offices will use the mailing address year-round.
Residence Hall Address
For students living in Illinois residence halls, you also have a residence hall address. Your residence hall address and mailing address will be the same unless you enter a different mailing address. While your residence hall address is active, we’ll send all correspondence to it from mid-August to early May.
Section Menu

Office of Student Financial Aid
							Student Services Arcade
							620 East John Street
							Champaign IL 61820
							217-333-0100 (phone)
							217-265-5516 (fax)
						

							Lobby Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central) Monday – Friday
							Temporary Phone Hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central)  Monday – Friday
							Email us anytime: finaid@illinois.edu
							For a list of Financial Aid Office staff, please see the Campus Directory 


							Helpful Resources
						
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Web Privacy Notice

