https://osfa.illinois.edu/cost/
Cost – Office of Student Financial Aid
Office of Student Financial Aid
Cost
We establish budgets to provide you with a reasonable estimate of the cost of attendance at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. To review the cost for undergraduates or graduates, please click on the appropriate link to the right.
What It Includes
Our budget includes allowances for tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and other expenses.
Tuition & Fees
Our tuition and fee amounts are based on full-time enrollment of 12 or more hours. Undergraduates who enroll at Illinois are guaranteed the same tuition rate for 4 continuous academic years by the Illinois Truth in Tuition (Public Act 93-0228). Additional information is available through the Office of the Registrar.
Room & Board
Our room and board allowance is based on a double room in a university residence hall and a meal plan consisting of 10 classic meals and 45 dining dollars. The allowance for graduate students is based on a single room in a university residence hall with a meal plan that consists of 10 classic meals and 45 dining dollars. Other living arrangements (private housing or an apartment) may be more or less expensive. Your cost of attendance won’t be adjusted for higher room and board or other living costs.
Books & Supplies
You should come to Illinois with sufficient funds to buy books, supplies, and any other items necessary to begin the semester, even if you’re expecting financial aid or plan to work on campus. The allowance is based on full-time enrollment, although expenses may vary based on the courses you’re taking.
Transportation
The transportation allowance represents an estimated cost of what you may spend to travel home throughout the academic year and to commute to campus.
Other Expenses
These include allowances for clothing, recreation, and other living and miscellaneous expenses. They vary greatly based on your lifestyle. The allowance is based on what we consider reasonable but modest costs after surveying segments of our student population.
Section Menu

Office of Student Financial Aid
							Student Services Arcade
							620 East John Street
							Champaign IL 61820
							217-333-0100 (phone)
							217-265-5516 (fax)
						

							Lobby Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central) Monday – Friday
							Temporary Phone Hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central)  Monday – Friday
							Email us anytime: finaid@illinois.edu
							For a list of Financial Aid Office staff, please see the Campus Directory 


							Helpful Resources
						
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Web Privacy Notice

