https://osfa.illinois.edu/illinois-commitment/
Illinois Commitment – Office of Student Financial Aid
Office of Student Financial Aid
Illinois Commitment
Four years. Free tuition.
Illinois Commitment
In-state students | $67,100 & under family income
Is your family income more than $67,100? See more options.
We’ll cover tuition and fees for up to four years for all qualified in-state students. That’s our mission as a land-grant institution. That’s Illinois Commitment.

How do you qualify?
Learn More
Four simple steps to free tuition.
Apply to Illinois*
Submit Your FAFSA**
Check Aid Status
Enroll at Illinois
*You may also qualify for an application fee waiver. Contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions for details.**You must submit the FAFSA prior to March 15 to be considered for Illinois Commitment.
Eligible students will receive a financial aid package that provides scholarship and grant funding to cover the full cost of tuition and campus fees not covered by other federal, state, institutional and private awards including the Federal Pell Grant and the State of Illinois MAP Grant. You will be considered for additional financial aid (grants, scholarships, loan and employment) to cover other educational expenses such as room and board, books and supplies, and personal/miscellaneous expenses.
Illinois Commitment does not cover course fees, summer classes, winter classes, intercampus enrollment, concurrent enrollment, study abroad, co-op, internship or other student expenses.
Is Illinois Commitment renewable?
Illinois Commitment is renewable for a total of four (4) years, (eight (8) semesters of continuous enrollment), for new freshman students and for up to three (3) years, (six (6) semesters of continuous enrollment), for new transfer students as long as you continue to meet the following renewal criteria.
Questions?
We’re here to help. Contact the Office of Student Financial Aid.
Frequently Asked Questions Show your support

Office of Student Financial Aid
							Student Services Arcade
							620 East John Street
							Champaign IL 61820
							217-333-0100 (phone)
							217-265-5516 (fax)
						

							Lobby Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central) Monday – Friday
							Temporary Phone Hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central)  Monday – Friday
							Email us anytime: finaid@illinois.edu
							For a list of Financial Aid Office staff, please see the Campus Directory 


							Helpful Resources
						
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Web Privacy Notice

