https://osfa.illinois.edu/process/verification-process/
Verification Process – Office of Student Financial Aid
Office of Student Financial Aid
Verification Process
Verification is the process of confirming that information reported by you and your parents or spouse on the FAFSA is accurate.
If You’re Selected
Each year, approximately 30% of student applicants nationwide are randomly selected by the Federal Central Processing System for verification. The university may also randomly select you.
If you’re selected for verification, we’ll mail you a letter explaining what additional documentation must be provided. Please include your name and University Identification Number on every document submitted to our office.
Verifying Your Tax Information
For 2022-23 verification: If you are selected for verification for 2022-2023 by the Federal Processor, information will be sent via email to returning students in mid-November requesting you log into your University of Illinois Integrated Self-Service (UI-Integrate Self-Service) for a list of requirements that need to be satisfied to complete the verification process. Incoming students selected for verification will be notified of document requirements as well as directions on how to upload them through your MyIllini account after admittance letters are sent.
Students and parents are encouraged to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for 2022-23 to report income and tax data. For security purposes, you will not be able to see the information transferred from the IRS on your FAFSA.
For 2021-22 verification: Changes were made by the Federal Government with regard to what must be submitted to the Office of Student Financial Aid in July 2021. If you are selected for verification by the Federal Processor for the 2021-2022 aid year, please log into your University of Illinois Integrated Self-Service (UI-Integrate Self-Service) or a list of current requirements that need to be satisfied in order to complete the verification process.
Students and parents are encouraged to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for 2021-22 to report income and tax data. For security purposes, you will not be able to see the information transferred from the IRS on your FAFSA.
Amended Tax Return
If for 2022-23 you, your accountant, or the IRS amended your tax return in 2020, you must:
If for 2021-22 you, your accountant, or the IRS amended your tax return in 2019, you must:
Victim of Identity Theft
For the 2022-23 academic year, if you are a tax filer who was a victim of identity theft for the 2020 tax year, please submit all of the following:
For the 2021-22 academic year, if you are a tax filer who was a victim of identity theft for the 2019 tax year, please submit all of the following:
After the IPSU authenticates the tax filer’s identify, the tax filer can request the IRS to mail an alternate paper tax return transcript to the tax filer. The alternate transcript is known as the Transcript DataBase View (TRDBV) and will meet the Department of Education’s acceptable documentation requirement. The TRDBV received from the IRS should be submitted to our office.
Once the required documentation is received, we’ll compare the documents to the information initially provided on your FASFA. If there are any discrepancies with the information on the FAFSA, we’ll make the corrections and you’ll receive an updated Student Aid Report. If the documentation provided to us doesn’t provide all of the necessary information to complete the verification process, you’ll be sent another letter outlining the additional documentation needed. Two to three weeks after the verification process is complete, you’ll receive an email indicating that your Award Notification is available for your review. Students selected for verification won’t receive an Award Notification until the verification process is complete. Please include your name and UIN on every document submitted to our office.
Verifying Your Citizenship Status
For 2022-23: If your citizenship status isn’t verified by the Central Processing Service when you initially complete your FAFSA, we’ll ask you to submit documentation to us verifying your citizenship status. Along with submitting the required documentation below to confirm your current citizenship status, you must complete and submit the 2022-23 Citizenship Affidavit form, which will be available soon, in addition to a copy of your valid government-issued photo ID to verify the citizenship documentation you are providing is a true, exact, and complete copy of the original one issued to you.
For 2021-22: If your citizenship status isn’t verified by the Central Processing Service when you initially complete your FAFSA, we’ll ask you to submit documentation to us verifying your citizenship status. Along with submitting the required documentation below to confirm your current citizenship status, you must complete and submit the 2021-22 Citizenship Affidavit form, which will be available soon, in addition to a copy of your valid government-issued photo ID to verify the citizenship documentation you are providing is a true, exact, and complete copy of the original one issued to you.
If you’re a U.S. citizen born in the U.S., submit one of the following documents:
If you’re a U.S. citizen born outside the U.S., submit one of the following documents:
If you’re an eligible non-citizen, submit one of the following documents to fulfill the requirement:
Completing the Process
Once the required documentation is received, we’ll compare the documents to the information initially provided on your FASFA. If there are any discrepancies compared to the information on the FAFSA, we’ll make the corrections and you’ll receive an updated Student Aid Report.
If the documentation provided to us doesn’t provide all of the necessary information to complete the verification process, you’ll be sent another letter outlining the additional documentation that’s needed.
Around 2 to 3 weeks after the verification process is complete, you’ll receive an email indicating that your Financial Aid Notification is available for your review.

Section Menu

Office of Student Financial Aid
							Student Services Arcade
							620 East John Street
							Champaign IL 61820
							217-333-0100 (phone)
							217-265-5516 (fax)
						

							Lobby Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central) Monday – Friday
							Temporary Phone Hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central)  Monday – Friday
							Email us anytime: finaid@illinois.edu
							For a list of Financial Aid Office staff, please see the Campus Directory 


							Helpful Resources
						
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Web Privacy Notice

