https://illinois.edu/about/rankings.html
Rankings | About | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Search
Search Website


Quicklinks
Resources for
About Links
Related Links: About
Admissions Links
Related Links: Admissions
Academics Links
Related Links: Academics
Research Links
Related Links: Research
Outreach Links
Related Links: Outreach
International Links
Related Links: International
Arts & Culture Links
Athletics Links
Related Links: Athletics
 Close Navigation
Rankings
At Illinois, we measure success by the impact our students, faculty, and alumni have in the world.
Our focus is on providing transformational learning experiences – in the classroom and out of it. And when you do this for nearly 150 years, people take notice.
U.S. News & World Report Rankings
The 2021-22 U.S. News & World Report's America's Best Colleges rankings rated Illinois as the number 15 public university and the number 47 national university.
U.S. News & World Report's graduate and undergraduate rankings
Unless noted otherwise, these represent the most recent information available.
Latest Undergraduate Rankings
U.S. News America's Best Colleges
Full Undergraduate Rankings for Colleges and Departments for 2021-22
Latest Graduate Rankings
U.S. News Best Graduate Schools
Full Graduate Rankings for Colleges and Departments for 2021-22
U.S. News Historical Ranking Downloads
Excel File downloads:
More Rankings
Open Doors - International Excellence
Open Doors ranks Illinois first among public universities in the number of international students.
Peace Corps Volunteers
Illinois ranked 20th in the nation among major universities in the number of undergraduate alumni who joined the Peace Corps in 2011.
More High Rankings From National and International Institutions
In 2019, the Institute for Higher Education at Shanghai Jiao Tong University (Academic Ranking of World Universities) ranked Illinois as the 38th best university in the world and 10th among American public universities.
This content managed and updated by Public Affairs
Quicklinks
Resources for
Campus Resources
U of I System
Website Info
Illinois Social Media
