https://illinois.edu/about/leadership.html
Leadership | About | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Search
Search Website


Quicklinks
Resources for
About Links
Related Links: About
Admissions Links
Related Links: Admissions
Academics Links
Related Links: Academics
Research Links
Related Links: Research
Outreach Links
Related Links: Outreach
International Links
Related Links: International
Arts & Culture Links
Athletics Links
Related Links: Athletics
 Close Navigation
Leadership
The University of Illinois is a public research university, ultimately responsible to the citizens of Illinois and the Illinois General Assembly.
Authority over the University is held by a board of trustees. A president is the chief executive officer for the University system, and each of three campuses is headed by a chancellor, vice chancellors who have campuswide responsibilities, and other administrators whose duties are delegated by the chancellor.
Chancellor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
                   Vice President, University of Illinois
The chancellor is the chief executive officer of the campus. The Office of the Chancellor has the all-encompassing goal of ensuring the overall excellence of the Urbana-Champaign campus. Vice chancellors, associate chancellors, and directors report directly to the chancellor.
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost
The provost is the chief academic and budget officer for the campus. The office oversees academic and budgetary policy and priorities, ensures the quality of the faculty and student body, and maintains educational excellence. All deans and directors of academic units report to the provost.
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
Senior diversity officer of the campus, responsible for leading strategic efforts to substantively enhance the campus diversity, inclusivity, and belonging across all aspects of the university’s mission. The office is also responsible for administrative processes and practices that support the university’s commitment to equal opportunity, gender equity, and accessibility for all members of the campus community.
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Senior research officer of the campus, responsible for facilitating all areas of scholarship and creative activity. Coordinates campus-wide research initiatives and oversees both campus-wide interdisciplinary institutes and the administrative processes responsible for ensuring the productive, safe, innovative, and ethical conduct of research.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs
The Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs is the senior student affairs officer of the campus, responsible for ensuring that every Illinois student has opportunities for personal and professional growth with special emphasis on leadership and career development, health and wellness, diversity programs, and engagement with the larger community.
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement
Senior advancement officer of the campus, responsible for ensuring the integration and coordination of the development, alumni relations, and marketing/communications functions of the campus that will lead to strong constituent relationships and generate significant private financial resources for the university.
Vice Chancellor for Administration and Operations
Responsible for facility, classroom and event management and scheduling, in addition to emergency planning, contracts and space usage. The Vice Chancellor serves as liaison to the Division of Intercollegiate Athletics and oversees the Division of Public Safety, Facilities and Services, Parking, Purchasing, the Illinois Fire Safety Institute, the Police Training Institute, Willard Airport, Allerton Mansion, Altgeld, McFarland Carillion and the Chicago Illini Center.
Office of the Campus Senate
The Senate is the legislative body of the campus. It is composed of 200 faculty and 50 students and sets educational policies, such as admission and graduation requirements, the academic calendar, etc.
Quicklinks
Resources for
Campus Resources
U of I System
Website Info
Illinois Social Media
