https://jamesscholars.education.illinois.edu/scholar-showcase/other-special-projects

	Other Special Projects | James Scholar Honors Program | College of Education | UIUC

College of Education 
James Scholar Honors Program
Scholar Showcase
Other Special Projects
James Scholar Blogs about her Experiences as a James Scholar in the College of Education
Rachel Hernandez, a James Scholar majoring in Middle Grade Education with concentrations in Social Science and Literacy, blogs about her experiences as a James
    Scholar and the benefits of the program. Visit her main blog page to see first hand how being a James Scholar has impacted her college life and personal
    growth.
Social Emotional Learning Workshop Given by Current James Scholars
February 7, 2018
Kayla Dossett and Lindsey Pingsterhaus gave a workshop for CI 420 students that discussed their experiences with Social Emotional Learning (SEL) and how to implement those practices in placements and classrooms as future educators. The workshop included topics such as how students acquire social skills through learning and interacting with peers as well as working through conflict resolution under teacher supervision. Kayla and Lindsey shared the ways they had incorporated SEL in their placements and how they witnessed their student's emotional growth and maturity throughout the process.
Online Article Available with Details on James Scholar Recognition Brunch & Honorees
May 10, 2018
The College of Education published an article on the annual James Scholar recognition Brunch. This article highlights the details of the event and includes some quotes from honorees as well as attendees. Please visit https://education.illinois.edu/about/news-events/news/article/2018/05/08/college-s-james-scholars-honored to read the article!
James Scholar Undergrads and Faculty Benefit Mutually Through Research and Learning
December 1, 2016
James Scholar undergraduate students are known for their hard work, leadership abilities, and scholarly contributions in conducting, analyzing, and presenting their own research.... Read More
College of Education
1310 S. Sixth St.
Champaign, IL 61820-6925
Quick access to:
Additional links
