https://jamesscholars.education.illinois.edu/program-detail

	Program Details | James Scholar Honors Program | College of Education | UIUC

College of Education 
James Scholar Honors Program
Program Details
Program Details
Eligible students receive an invitation to participate in the program on the 10th day of classes in the fall semester. Current UIUC and transfer students must have an Overall and/or UIUC GPA of 3.5 or above in order to receive an invitation to participate in the program. Incoming Freshmen are identified at the campus level. 
Incoming Freshmen and ICT students will be expected to select James Scholars options in accordance with the requirements of the designated four themes. In order to be eligible for cords at graduation, two research projects and three academic years as a James Scholar are required.
Incoming transfer students are encouraged to participate in a variety of the project options offered. In order to be eligible for cords at graduation, two academic years as a James Scholar are required.
All students must participate their senior year in order to be considered for James Scholar honor cords at graduation.
Students must successfully complete a James Scholar Project in the Fall and Spring semester in order to receive James Scholar transcript notation for the academic year. For all requirements, please see below.
A Note About Honor's Credit Learning Agreements (eHCLA)
All students who wish to participate in the James Scholar Program must complete an eHCLA in order to be considered a James Scholar for that semester/academic year. Even if students take a designated James Scholar course, they must still complete the eHCLA.
The College of Education recognizes the intellectual achievements of James Scholar students. Special James Scholar honor cord recognition is available at the College of Education May commencement ceremony. Eligibility to wear a special James Scholar honor cord at the College of Education commencement is based on the number of academic certifications received. Academic certification is awarded on an annual basis; a student must be a James Scholar both fall and spring to receive academic certification for the year. To receive honor cord recognition, students must:
College of Education
1310 S. Sixth St.
Champaign, IL 61820-6925
Quick access to:
Additional links
