https://jamesscholars.education.illinois.edu/program-detail/leadership-projects

	Leadership Projects | James Scholar Honors Program | College of Education | UIUC

College of Education 
James Scholar Honors Program
Program Details
Leadership Projects
 
Leadership Courses

Who Should Take This Class: Freshman, Sophomore, or Junior students in ANY college/major interested in developing their self-awareness, self-management, and interpersonal communication skills to be effective team members and leaders.Students will expand their capacity for communication, collaboration and team leadership to navigate the complexities of the university and beyond. In this course, students will learn communication strategies to work with others and practice self-awareness, self-management, and interpersonal communication skills in a supportive setting to reach their personal potential as emerging leaders.Visit this link to view the course.


Prerequisite: Freshman, Sophomore, or Junior Standing Required.Students will develop their capacity for leadership in university and volunteer organizations. In this course, students will learn about organizational structures, elements of effective organizations, strategies for leading other people, and applications beyond formal student organizations.Visit this link for course information.


Restricted to students with Senior or Graduate class standing. Fall only course.Students will develop their capacity for leadership in their current and future professional positions in business and academic research teams, as well as within their broader community. This course's activities are designed to help students understand organizational structures, effective organizations, leading other people, and application of systems thinking beyond formal organizations to communities and society. Visit this link for course information.

Graduate Student or Senior Standing Required. Spring only course.
Students will develop their capacity for leadership in their current and future professional positions in business and academic research teams, as well as within their broader community. This course's activities are designed to help students understand organizational structures, effective organizations, leading other people, and application of systems thinking beyond formal organizations to communities and society.
Visit this link for course information.
Leadership Center I-Programs
Please note, students may use a total of two Leadership programs to count for James Scholar credit. If you have already attended two Leadership Center programs for James Scholar credit, please select another option. 
To receive James Scholar credit, you will need to follow these steps in order:
1. Register for an option below through the Leadership Center website: It needs to be a program you have not previously attended. 

2. REGISTRATION REQUIRED on ILC WEBSITE!  Student must be aware of ILC registration deadlines and capacity limits and be certain they are registered and ACCEPTED prior to the March 1 or October 1 deadline of the eHCLA.
Once you receive an email registration confirmation from the Leadership Center, please forward the email to recordsofficer@education.illinois.edu.
3. Submit the eHCLA by March 1st or October 1st to indicate which program you will (or did) attend. This option is only available if you have already forwarded the email registration confirmation in step 2.
4. Once you attend the program, please submit a screenshot of the certificate/confirmation of completion by e-mail no later than the end of the semester in which the program was attended.
To receive James Scholar credit for attending an Illinois Leadership Center program, students are expected to be an active and positive participant.
Other Leadership Opportunities
College of Education
1310 S. Sixth St.
Champaign, IL 61820-6925
Quick access to:
Additional links
