https://jamesscholars.education.illinois.edu/participating-faculty-researchers

	Participating Faculty Researchers | James Scholar Honors Program | College of Education | UIUC

College of Education 
James Scholar Honors Program
Participating Faculty Researchers
Students interested in pursuing research may contact a participating faculty member to inquire about this option and if available should submit an electronic Honors Credit Learning Agreement (eHCLA). The eHCLA is an agreement between the James Scholar student and the cooperating faculty member that outlines the expectations for the James Scholar project. The list below provides a short summary of faculty members' research interests. You can click on their name for more information about their research, publications, and contact information.
Students who wish to pursue the research option are encouraged to enroll in CI 205 (spring only). The CI 205 course is designed to introduce students to the fundamentals of research. This course will cover the basics of educational research and assist students in a research project with a faculty member in the College of Education. In addition to the faculty listed below, more options are available by viewing the College of Education faculty research profiles.
Research lab sites available in the College of Education are located under the Research Lab heading. Please familiarize yourself with the lab by accessing the link and contact the participating faculty member for information on how to participate.
Participating Faculty
Paul Bruno
Assistant Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
Paul Bruno studies K-12 education administration and policy. His research uses mostly quantitativemethods and focuses primarily on new teacher personnel administration (such as hiring,assignment, and compensation), school finance, and school choice.
1. New Teacher Screening and Hiring: This project involves understanding how to screen applicant teachers to predict which applicants will be most effective. 
2. High School Computer Science Participation and Staffing: This project explores who participates in rapidly proliferating high school computer science courses, who schools find to teach these courses, whether it matters who teaches these courses, and what the consequences of computer science course taking is for students, teachers, and schools.
3. Charter Schools and School Funding Formulas: This project studies whether charter schools – publicly funded, privately operated schools of choice – change which students they serve when the state funding formula changes their expected revenues for enrolling different types of student. 
Depending on interest, background, and availability, the scholar would be involved in literature review, data collection and coding, data cleaning, data analysis, or drafting/editing manuscripts. Scholars should expect to spend 5-10 hours per week on their project, with flexibility around busy times of the semester.
Meghan Burke
Professor, Special Education
Meghan Burke conducts research that examines how parents navigate service delivery systems to access services for their offspring with disabilities. Her projects often include interviews with parents of individuals with disabilities. The scholar may assist with transcription, data entry, and writing. Time commitment to James Scholar projects may vary depending on the student.
Jennifer Cromley
Professor, Educational Psychology
Dr. Jennifer Cromley is an Associate Professor in Educational Psychology. Her work focuses on two areas of science/math learning:
Work in the lab includes analyzing student scratch work on science and math tasks (middle school through undergraduate); data entry, cleanup, and measurement work on various assessments; and data analysis under supervision. James Scholars who make intellectual contributions can count on having their name on a conference submission.
Jose Del Real Viramontes
Assistant Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
José Del Real Viramontes is in the Higher Education program under EPOL. His research generally focuses on the access, promotion, and graduation of Latina/o/x students in higher education. However, Viramontes received his PhD in Curriculum & Instruction with an emphasis in Cultural Studies in Education. He has experience teaching courses on teaching and learning with a focus on Mexican American students and families.
This upcoming semester, Viramontes is willing to support students in general projects that would introduce them to research with a focus on Mexican American/Latina/o students and education. Projects that students may want to engage in are:
Scholars will need to be actively engaged throughout the project. Time commitment would range between 3-4 hours depending on project and scholar needs.
Stacy Dymond
Professor, Special Education
Stacy Dymond has research interests focused on curriculum and instruction for students with severe intellectual disabilities in inclusive school and community settings. She is particularly interested in the use of service learning as a form of pedagogy for promoting access to academics and life skills curriculum.
Rebecca Ginsburg
Associate Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
Rebecca Ginsburg primarily focuses her research on prison education and re-entry from prison.Project 1: Ginsburg is creating a website directory of all the college-in-prison programs in the U.S. This project includes researching programs, contacting them and requesting further information, and working with the website team to add programs to the site. It's an opportunity to talk and learn from incredible teacher-scholar-activists from across the country. This project is not super time sensitive. Five hours/week would be enough to keep it moving forward. 10/hours/week would allow even more work to be done!Project 2: Updating bibliography on higher education in prison. Ginsburg has an annotated bibliography on works related to higher education in prison. Updating this will involve library and database searches. The scholars can work independently with an estimated completion time of 30-35 hours of work – 3-4 hours per week over the semester.Project 3: Ginsburg is organizing a statewide conference on higher education in prison. The scholar can work with the organizing team and attend the conference in Springfield in October while writing short articles for social media about the upcoming conference, as well as during and after the conference. This will involve interviewing people about their work related to college-in-prison and relating their stories and the stories of the programs that they work with. It will involve about 5-7 hours per week.
Gloriana Gonzalez Rivera
Professor & Associate Department Head for Graduate Programs, Curriculum & Instruction
Gloriana González Rivera focuses research on mathematics teaching, mathematics learning, and teacher education. The scholar will be able to assist with her project on teaching geometry through visual arts contexts. Be prepared to analyze textbooks with visual arts contexts and describe learning opportunities. The project involves coding textbooks and analyzing the contexts used.
Rebecca Hinze-Pifer
Assistant Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
Rebecca Hinze-Pifer focuses on using a range of quantitative methods including descriptive, quasi-experimental, and experimental methods. She has two lines of research in K-12 schools.
The James Scholars can assist with the following:
Rodney Hopson
Professor, Educational Psychology
Rodney Hopson is Professor, Educational Psychology and Evaluation and Associate Director and Senior Fellow, Center for Responsive Evaluation and Assessment, College of Education, UIUC. Additionally, he is an affiliated faculty member in the Department of Education Policy, Organization, and Leadership.  Hopson’s research interests lie in social politics and policies, foundations of education, sociolinguistics, ethnography, and evaluation.
Scholars will have the opportunity to provide research or project support and assistance related to 1 or 2 projects of interest, such as:
Scholar time commitment would depend on availability and flexibility of scholars.
Wenhao David Huang
Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
Wen-Hao (David) Huang is primarily interested in understanding how to motivate individuals and organizations to behave productively in various learning and performance improvement contexts. An essential subset of his research is to understand how decisions are made by individuals and organizations and what are some opportunities and challenges for individuals and organizations to make informed decisions.
Huang invites scholars to assist with the following projects:
Karin Jensen
Karin Jensen focuses her research in engineering education, particularly around undergraduate student mental health and mentorship of engineering faculty in engineering education research.
Jensen invites scholars to assist with NSF Early-Concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER). This project seeks to study the mentorship relationships of engineering faculty and engineering education researchers who are participating in the NSF RIEF program. The project strives to identify best practices for these mentoring relationships, as well as develop resources and events to facilitate growth of scholars in engineering education. Scholars would work with the research team to review interview transcripts and code these transcripts to identify emerging themes. Scholars would review the literature on mentorship, particularly to learn about the cognitive apprenticeship model. Scholars would also contribute to drafting conference papers and journal articles. Estimated scholar time commitment is 5-10 hours per week, including regular meetings with the research team.
Christina Krist
Assistant Professor, Curriculum & Instruction
Christina Krist focuses research on how to make science education more meaningful for students. She examines how students learn to participate in sophisticated scientific practices and how they develop care and agency through their participation. Dr. Kirst also examines how teachers support students' agency, both relationally and epistemically.
Scholars will have the opportunity to qualitatively analyze video data from middle school classrooms, teacher interviews, and/or teacher professional development workshops, depending on area of interest. Scholars will be responsible for articulating a focused research question and carrying out some analysis of the data, in collaboration with other members of the research team. In addition, scholars should plan to attend a bi-weekly research team meeting. Anticipated time commitment is ~5 hrs/week.
H Chad Lane
Associate Department Chair & Associate Professor, Educational Psychology
H. Chad Lane is an Associate Professor of Educational Psychology with a joint appointment in Informatics. His research involves the application of artificial intelligence and entertainment technologies to educational problems, with an emphasis on informal and self-directed learning. More specifically, this work seeks to investigate the nature of engagement in learning activities and how to best promote it through technology. Dr. Lane is interested in starting new projects along these lines that leverage game-based and effective technologies for K-12 STEM education, and even potentially leveraging commercial-off-the-shelf games such as Minecraft and Terraria.
Nancy Latham
Executive Director, Council on Teacher Education, Council on Teacher Education
Nancy Latham focuses her research on teacher workforce pathways, teacher persistence in the field, teacher shortage, and teacher preparation models. She also focuses on early childhood best practices, instructional environments, classroom management and community, and instructional planning and assessment.
Scholars can assist Latham with issues related to state and national policies on teacher preparation, workforce pathways, and teacher shortage, as well as projects specific to ECE instruction described above. Students will be provided the opportunity to co-design the scope and trajectory of their project, later defining the timeline and outcomes.
Cheryl Light Shriner
Goldstick Family Scholar and Teaching Assistant Professor, Special Education
Cheryl Light Shriner is interested in research related to high quality assessments and interventions to address challenging behavior in children with disabilities within school settings.
James Scholars can expect to assist Dr. Light Shriner with one of the following projects:
Project 1) This project involves evaluating the completeness and quality of written behavior assessments and behavioral interventions that are included in a student's individualized education program (IEP) within school settings. A James Scholar would be reviewing the literature (reading and summarizing research articles related to the topic), using a tool to evaluate the completeness and quality of FBAs and BIPs, and potentially be involved in training teachers to use a tool to evaluate completeness and quality of FBAs and BIPs. The teachers would then be given a survey to indicate how useful this tool was. The James Scholar could help summarize the usefulness survey information. Expect a time commitment of at least 2 hours each week.
Project 2) This project involves identifying behavior management tools that preschool teachers use in their classrooms to minimize challenging behaviors and to teach alternative skills to children with and without disabilities who demonstrate challenging behaviors. The James Scholar would have the opportunity to interview teachers and observe in classrooms to document the tools and strategies that teachers use and then assist in summarizing this information. The tools and strategies will then be summarized and categorized by function of behavior (reason the child demonstrates the challenging behavior). Expect a time commitment of at least 2 hours each week.
Project 3) This project involves identifying the types of experiences in a course that influence and possibly change perceptions and attitudes about people with disability. There will be an emphasis on what experiences are most helpful for international students who may come from very different cultural backgrounds and belief systems. The James Scholar will be involved in reading and summarizing information from journal articles and may have the opportunity to interview international participants who are enrolled in courses with a disability focus. Expect a time commitment of at least 2 hours each week.
Robb Lindgren
Affiliated Associate Professor, Educational Psychology
Robb Lindgren is an Assistant Professor in the Curriculum & Instruction Department and faculty in the Digital Environments for Learning, Teaching, and Agency (DELTA) program. Dr. Lindgren's research examines theories and designs for learning within emerging media platforms (e.g., simulations, virtual environments, mobile devices, video games, augmented and mixed reality, etc.).
Dr. Lindgren has several projects involving the design of science simulations that students interact with using full body movement or hand gestures. He also has projects working with science museums to collect and analyze data about how visitors use their exhibits, and a project using augmented reality (e.g., the HoloLens) in a community college astronomy classroom.
Hedda Meadan-Kaplansky
Margaret Joy Smale Valpey Professor in Special Education and Department Head, Special Education
Hedda Meadan-Kaplansky focuses her areas of research on social and communication behavior of young children with autism and other developmental disabilities. She is very interested in intervention strategies to promote the social-communication behavior of children with disabilities and in methods for training and coaching parents (e.g., home-based intervention and internet-based interventions).
Amber Ray
Assistant Professor, Special Education
Amber Ray conducts research that develops and examines the effectiveness of writing and reading interventions and instruction to help students with disabilities and diverse learning needs succeed in elementary through high school. Her research projects focus on strategy and self-regulationapproaches to instruction and methods of professional development for teachers and school leaders on effective writing and reading instruction.
Scholars may be involved in some of the following activities: development and revision of instructional and professional development materials, classroom observations, scoring of student work, review of relevant literature, and analyzing data.
Scholars will have the opportunity to work on research projects related to their interests. Time commitment will depend on the scope of the selected project.
Rachel Roegman
Associate Professor, Education Policy, Organization and Leadership
Rachel Roegman is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Education Policy, Organization and Leadership at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Her research interests examine the interconnections of equity, contexts, and leadership, and her work focuses on the development and support of equity-focused leaders.
Dr. Roegman's project focuses on understanding K-12 public school principals’ perspectives on and experiences with addressing issues of race with multiple constituent groups within diverse school contexts, based on the idea that how they approach race impacts student and staff perceptions of the school’s racial climate, which is connected to student outcomes.
Students involved in the project may be involved in some of the following activities: conducting interviews, transcribing data, developing a survey, reviewing literature, and analyzing data. Roegman looks forward to discussing the project with interested students!
Nidia Ruedas-Gracia
Assistant Professor, Educational Psychology
Nidia Ruedas-Gracia (she/her/hers) conducts research that explores sociocultural factors (e.g., sense of belonging) that impact the academic performance and psychological development of historically minoritized students. She also works on informing and developing culturally-sustaining interventions for diverse college students, specifically those who are first-generation/low-income (FLI).
James Scholars will work collaboratively with Dra. Ruedas-Gracia to determine their role(s) andresponsibilities in the lab. Typically this is completed during an initial 30 minute meeting. Some examples of roles and responsibilities include leading a literature review, transcribing interviews, conducting data entry, cleaning survey data, coding qualitative data (interviews, focus groups), and collecting data. 
For samples of lab projects, visit ruedasgracia.com. Opportunities for co-authoring a manuscript with lab members are available.
 
Christopher Seals
Dr. Christopher Seals is an assistant professor and coordinator of curriculum and assessment for the College of Veterinary Medicine. Dr. Seals is an educational psychologist whose research interests broadly include motivational constructs in learning and expanding the pedagogical scope of instructors to explore innovative and modern teaching practices in efforts to reach varied types of learners.
In efforts to learn more about the student learning experience for DVM students, this James Scholar will assist in and exploratory study of collecting data about the effectiveness of the overall DVM curriculum, including but not limited to hospital rotation learning, course learning, assessment, and the success of various teaching styles.
The James Scholar duties will include: collect and clean data, analyze data using statistics software, become familiar with IRB application, read and learn about research in learning and motivation, prepare research for a poster or for a presentation at a future conference/symposium. The scholar can expect a time commitment of 10 hours per week.
Stephanie Smith
Associate Professor, Curriculum & Instruction
Stephanie C. Smith is an Assistant Professor of Curriculum and Instruction specializing in Early Childhood Education. Her research focuses on urban early childhood programs.
Dr. Smith is particularly interested in:
Emily Tarconish
Teaching Assistant Professor, Special Education
Emily Tarconish conducts research that examines the experiences of college and graduate studentswith disabilities, develops effective practices for postsecondary disability services providers, anddevelops and assesses the effectiveness of disability awareness and inclusive teaching trainings for postsecondary educators. She primarily uses qualitative approaches to analyze and interpret qualitative data, such as interviews, open-ended surveys and transcripts from focus groups.
Scholars may assist with transcription, coding and analysis of data, and writing. Time commitmentfor assisting with projects may vary depending on the student’s interests and needs.
Asif Wilson
Assistant Professor, Curriculum & Instruction
My research broadly explores justice centered pedagogies in p-20 educational contexts. More specifically, it explores a) how policies
and social movement organizing shape justice-centered pedagogies, b) how teachers engage in,
and conceptualize, justice-centered pedagogies, and c) how students experience justice-centered
educational spaces.
Social Studies in Illinois - I have a contract with ISBE to design, co-facilitate, and assess/evaluate
a five-part professional learning experience with Illinois social studies teachers. Interested scholars
could support the research component of the project. 
Archival research
on teacher activism/educational social movements. - This is a Chicago-based assignment. I am
working on several research threads related to teacher activism and educational social movements
in Chicago. I would love support with searching archives for important resources. 
Envisioning Justice, Imagining Freedom - Illinois social studies teachers
will be completing surveys and interviews related to their experience in a professional learning
experience on the school-prison nexus and liberatory pedagogies in social studies. Interested
scholars could support the research component of the project, which will take place virtually.
The time commitment on these projects is flexible.
Allison Witt
Director, Office of International Programs, Office of International Programs
Allison Witt focuses her research on globalizing teacher education and teaching practice. She is especially interested in how pre-service teachers can develop global competency themselves in ways that can be modeled with their own students later.
Witt's current research projects include the analysis of the cross cultural exchange between visiting and host teachers in international contexts. She is particularly focused on the transformative potential of collaborative international partnerships that must be established and maintained between schools, universities, administrators, and teachers.
College of Education
1310 S. Sixth St.
Champaign, IL 61820-6925
Quick access to:
Additional links
