https://jamesscholars.education.illinois.edu/program-detail/research-courses

	Research Projects | James Scholar Honors Program | College of Education | UIUC

College of Education 
James Scholar Honors Program
Program Details
Research Projects
Below, you can find dedicated James Scholar Research projects. These courses count as research credit without any additional project(s). TWO courses are available to meet research requirements:
EDUC 102   Freshman Honors Seminar   credit: 1 Hour. (Freshman Only)
Provides an introduction to critical issues in education with focus on selected contemporary issues in the field; emphasis is on critical analysis and reflection on relationships between teachers, schools, and society.
CI 205   Undergraduate Honors Research   credit: 1 Hour. (Spring Semester Only)
Course focuses on reading/understanding education research and working with a College of Education faculty mentor on a small research project. Student projects will be presented at the Spring Campus Undergraduate Research Symposium. Classes initially will be led by the instructor, but later will be conducted as a seminar with students leading discussions on the topic of their research. To the extent possible, students will select readings and research topics of personal interest. May be repeated in separate semesters if topics vary. Prerequisite: Restricted to College of Education James Scholar Program Students.
HDFS 494   Applied Research Methods   credit: 1 to 4 Hours.
Participation in faculty-supervised research as a member of a transdisiplinary team investigating questions related to the health and well-being of children and families. Students propose their own research questions and present findings developed from data gathered by the team. 1 to 4 undergraduate hours. No graduate credit. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours in the same term or to a maximum of 12 hours in separate terms. Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.
*URAP Program
James Scholars who participate in the campus URAP program will take GC 295 and their eHCLA will be a course related project. However, this project WILL fulfill one of your research requirements for the James Scholar program.
 
There are also non course related research options available for James Scholars to complete the required research component of the program. Those are:
Research with an individual faculty member

National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) SPIN Program
Office of Undergraduate Research opportunities:
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF)
Illinois Undergraduate Research Ambassadors (IURAs) program
College of Education
1310 S. Sixth St.
Champaign, IL 61820-6925
Quick access to:
Additional links
