https://dgs.illinois.edu/schedule-an-appointment
Schedule an Appointment | Division of General Studies
Main navigation

  Schedule an Appointment

All academic advising appointments will take place In-Person or via Zoom. Advisors will be available to discuss major selection, course planning, ICT requirement, academic progress, and all other academic related questions. 
 
Whether it's exploring majors and minors, selecting courses for an upcoming semester, or learning more about resources and opportunities on campus, DGS advisors are here for you!
Appointments can be made online or by calling the DGS office. The Online Appointment System is the preferred method for scheduling, but appointments can also be made by phone or in person at the DGS office.
Phone: 217-333-4710
Location: Illini Union Bookstore, Floor 5, 807 South Wright Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday to Friday
For a printable version of these questions click here.
Waiting for your registration appointment? There are many things you can do before your appointment to help you prepare for registration. Please go through the steps below and bring your completed form with you to your advising appointment.
Step 1: Before your advising appointment, reflect on the following questions:
1. What majors, minors, and pre-professional interests are you currently exploring?
2. Reflecting on your courses this semester, what courses did you like? What courses did you not like?
3. What have you done to explore your major(s) of interest this semester? How has this impacted your major exploration?
4. What majors, minors, and pre-professional interests would you like to explore next semester?
Step 2: Research general education requirements, courses, and transfer requirements for your major(s).
1. Run a Degree Audit Report (DARS) for your major of interest. What general education categories do you still need to complete? Create a list of possible general education courses by going to Course Explorer and looking at the General Education Requirements tab. 
2. Look at the Academic Catalog to see what courses are required for your major(s) of interest. Using the Academic Catalog and your DARS report, create a list of possible courses to help you explore your major(s).
3. Look at the Intercollegiate Transfer (ICT) Process to find information on your major(s) of interest. Be sure to click on the links to the individual departments’ transfer websites off of this link as well. Are you currently meeting those transfer requirements? If not, what do you need to do to meet the transfer requirements? If you are significantly below the transfer requirements, what other majors have you considered?
4. What questions would you like to have answered in your advising appointment?
Step 3: Meet with an advisor
**Note: If your time ticket opens before you have met with an advisor, you can start Step 4 by adding courses from your lists in Step 2, Questions 1 and 2. However, it is important that you also schedule an appointment with an advisor to go over your courses and check on your progress toward your major of interest.**
Step 4: Register for classes
To register, go to Course Explorer and click on Self-Service to log in. Go to Registration and Records > Registration, and either search for classes at Look-Up or Select Classes, or type in CRNs in the Add/Drop Classes link.
For a tutorial on how to use the registration system, go to Registration Procedures.
If you encounter a registration error, consult the class schedule at Course Explorer, as well as https://dgs.illinois.edu/course-registration.
The Division of General Studies recognizes that there may be times when students need to reschedule their advising appointments. Students who need to reschedule or cancel an advising appointment should do so by calling 217-333-4710 or using the online appointment scheduling system.
Missing an academic advising appointment takes the appointment time away from other students who could have met with an advisor.  Students who do not attend, cancel, or reschedule advising appointments or show up more than 10 minutes late for an appointment are considered “no-shows” which is noted in their permanent advising record.  Multiple no-shows have a negative impact on students’ advising records and their ability to make changes to their schedules at the University of Illinois. 
After a total of three documented no-shows in one term or multiple no-shows across terms, a registration hold will be placed on the student’s record which can only be lifted by meeting with an academic advisor in DGS. 
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING APPOINTMENTS AND ILLNESS
To help prevent the spread of illness, if you have any flu-like symptoms, we ask that you reschedule your advising appointment or consider doing a Zoom appointment instead.

Campus Center for Advising
and Academic Services
807 S. Wright St. Floor 5
Champaign, Illinois 61801

Phone: 217.333.4710

Contact Us
Quick Links
©2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
