Leave of absence = losing OPT?. I am a Master in Computer Science and I started my program in Fall 2018 (had to take 2 extra semesters before of my undergrad major). I am really concerned about losing my OPT by taking this semester (Spring 2021) off. I would like to know your opinion.

Spring 2020: Enrolled full time - Living in the U.S and moved back to my home country (Europe) in April.

Summer 2020: Still in my home country - did not take any classes.

Fall 2020: Still in my home country - Doing a 1-semester internship approved by my university

So right now I have 2 semesters left before to graduate. I must take 2 classes this semester (Spring 2021) in order to maintain my status but I have some financial issues and I just accepted a full-time offer at my company 2 weeks ago. My plan was:

Spring 2021: full-time job + 1 class OR full-time job + leave of absence

Summer 2021: full-time job + 1 class OR full-time job (during summer we don't need to take classes-

Fall 2022: quit my job in my home country + go back to the US to take my last semester

I am allowed to take classes from my home country for Spring 2021 but I clearly can't take 2 classes while working full-time. I just have an appointment with the International Student Services of my university and they told me if I take a non medical leave of absence, I may (low probability but still) loose my OPT and I need to fill a form ASAP.

**This is the International Office response:**

If you will be on a leave for one term, you may be eligible to reactivate your SEVIS record and return to the U.S. with your current I-20. Please note that this is not something we can guarantee given that the decision to reactivate your SEVIS record is made by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP). You can submit a request for reactivation here no sooner than 60 days from the start date of the term for which you will be returning.

If the reactivation is not approved or you are not eligible to request a reactivation, you will have to return on a new, initial I-20. This means that you will have to re-pay the SEVIS fee and you will have a new SEVIS ID. In this case, you will not be eligible for employment benefits (CPT and OPT) until you have maintained your F-1 status for at least one academic year from the program start date on the new I-20. You can submit a request for a new I-20.

While we are never able to guarantee that a reactivation request will be approved, reactivations are typically only denied if you stop attending classes and/or depart the U.S. before applying for a leave. We have seen successful reactivations for students who request the leave in advance.

\--------------------------------

Do you think I can try to get a medical leave of absence from abroad in that case? I asked her that question but she told me it was a very tricky question. Honestly, I am super anxious about what I should do.