https://covid19.illinois.edu/away-from-campus/travel/
Travel – COVID-19
General
Students
Instructors
Employees
Travel
University travel
International Travel: International travel on behalf of the university should only be approved for essential reasons when the objective of the travel cannot effectively be accomplished virtually. It requires approval by the respective Executive Officer (dean, vice provost, vice chancellor, etc.), and will be informed by the U.S. Department of State and CDC guidance on international travel advisories.
Domestic Travel: Travel on behalf of the university will no longer need additional approvals, other than the standard approvals required pre-COVID (before March 2020). 
Study Abroad: Students are encouraged to review the latest updates and resources on the Education Abroad website.
Personal travel 
Assess the COVID-19 situation at your destination prior to departure to ensure travel to the location can be safely managed. This is particularly important if you are considering international travel as the restrictions are very fluid.
When traveling, continue to follow the CDC’s recommendations.
After travel
Fully vaccinated individuals do not need to self-quarantine after travel. All individuals (vaccinated and unvaccinated) should test as soon as possible upon return. (Building access will not be affected by this test result if individuals have a university-verified vaccine in the MyMcKinley Portal). 
Travelers who are NOT fully vaccinated need to self-quarantine for 7 days and get tested 3-5 days after your return. Afterwards, non-vaccinated individuals should resume their regular testing schedule.
Additional Guidance
Frequently Asked Questions
If you forget a testing day, you should be tested as soon as possible.
If you will be away from campus for less than a week, test the day before you leave. Then, if you receive a noncompliance email from the Office for Student Conflict Resolution, please indicate the reason for missing a test. If you will be away from campus for more than a week, update your Student Location address in Student Self-Service. Remember to update this address again when you return to campus. You should resume testing as soon as you return.
The University’s COVID-19 test is a Saliva RT-PCR test performed in a CLIA certified lab. After your receive your test result message via the MyMcKinley Portal, you can print those results or reach out to McKinley at studenthealthcenter@illinois.edu to request an official report. Official reports include full patient identifiers, test name, date of collection and testing, name and of the CLIA Certified lab, as well as the results. We recommend that you confirm with your airline what type of report or test will be accepted. If you need a nasal swab test that is FDA certified, our saliva test documentation will not be sufficient for your travel needs. Please note that obtaining a nasal test result might require more time than required by most airlines and on-demand options within the community are limited. McKinley does not provide personalized letters of authenticity with their official reports.  
Colleagues traveling within the U.S. are permitted to visit campus. Colleagues traveling to campus from outside the U.S. should only be approved for essential reasons when the objective of the travel cannot effectively be accomplished virtually. It requires approval by the respective Executive Officer (dean, vice provost, vice chancellor, etc.).
Per CDC guidelines we recommend individuals do not travel to campus until they are fully vaccinated if they are able to do so. If they are here for several days, we also encourage them to utilize our free on-campus COVID-19 testing. Visiting colleagues should arrange to receive building access with the unit or department that has invited them to campus.
Fully vaccinated individuals do not need to self-quarantine after travel.  All individuals (vaccinated and unvaccinated) should test as soon as possible upon return. (Building access will not be affected by this test result if individuals have a university-verified vaccine in the MyMcKinley Portal). 
Travelers who are NOT fully vaccinated need to self-quarantine for 7 days and get tested 3-5 days after your return. Afterwards, non-vaccinated individuals should resume their regular testing schedule
For more information, please visit the CDC website and the Travel page on the university COVID-19 website.
According to a CDC order, “if you plan to travel internationally, you will need to get tested no more than 3 days before you travel by air into the United States and show your negative result to the airline before you board your flight, or be prepared to show documentation of recovery (proof of a recent positive viral test and a letter from your healthcare provider or a public health official stating that you were cleared to travel).” Please continue to check the CDC website as guidance evolves.
Additional Resources
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
