https://covid19.illinois.edu/health-and-support/quarantine-and-isolation/
Quarantine and Isolation – COVID-19
General
Students
Instructors
Employees
Quarantine and Isolation
The University has been working closely with the Champaign-Urbana Public Health District (CUPHD) since this pandemic began. We have quarantine and isolation plans and processes in place to help maximize safety and minimize the spread of COVID-19.
Quarantine helps prevent the spread of disease by separating and restricting the movement of people who were exposed to COVID-19. It is used to keep someone who might have been exposed to the virus away from others to reduce the potential risk of transmission.
Isolation is used when someone has actually tested positive for COVID-19. It is used to keep someone known to be contagious with COVID-19 away from others.
Guidance for quarantine
You can find information for quarantine guidelines on the CDC website.
Guidance for isolation
When an individual tests positive for COVID-19, they will be required to isolate. You can find information for isolation guidelines on the CDC website.
Guidance for employees
View Illinois Human Resources’ COVID-19 Employee Guidelines for Close Contact Quarantine and Infected Isolation. For employee questions, please contact ihr-ler@illinois.edu.
Transportation
Facilities & Services is available to provide transportation services for students entering or exiting quarantine and isolation.
Ride hours:
9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Frequently Asked Questions
Under the guidance of the Champaign-Urbana Public Health District (CUPHD), the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign has recommendations for individuals who travel. View the Travel page for more information.
If you have been released from isolation, there are steps that you can follow to ease your transition back to full campus participation.
Students contracted with University Housing, who opt to isolate or quarantine in the residence halls, and have an active meal plan, will have daily meals provided, taking into consideration dietary needs and restrictions.
Students with a University Housing apartment lease are responsible for their own groceries and meals.
Students contracted with a Private Certified Housing unit should contact their individual Private Certified Housing unit directly for more information on their isolation and quarantine meal procedures.
For those who live off campus, there are a number of local services that offer food or grocery delivery. Please note for the driver to leave the food outside of your door.
Additional Resources
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
