https://covid19.illinois.edu/away-from-campus/remote-work/
Remote Work – COVID-19
The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is dedicated to maximizing the safety of the on-campus experience for students, faculty and staff. Part of that includes reducing the overall number of individuals on campus. In that spirit, the university strongly supports efforts by units across campus to create flexibility for remote work and telecommuting for university employees.
The university considers telecommuting to be a viable alternative work arrangement in cases where individual, job and supervisor characteristics are suited to such an arrangement. Telecommuting allows an employee to work at home, or other approved remote location, for all or a part of their regular workweek.
Telecommuting employees remain obligated to comply with all University rules, policies, practices and procedures. Violation of such rules, practices and procedures may result in immediate termination of the arrangement and possible disciplinary action.
The decision to offer a telecommuting arrangement is dependent upon the judgment and discretion of the managing supervisor in consultation with Unit/College Human Resources. Either an employee or a managing supervisor can suggest telecommuting as a possible work arrangement.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the university has adjusted some of its Telecommuting Guidelines to provide more flexibility to units to accommodate remote work requests.
There are a few considerations for units, supervisors and employees when evaluating remote work options:
General support for remote work
Health concerns and at-risk staff
Dependent care responsibilities
If you are unable to reach an agreement with your supervisor regarding your remote-work arrangement, please contact your unit HR representative or the Labor and Employee Relations area within Illinois Human Resources at IHR-LER@illinois.edu or 217-333-3105
In addition to any services and support provided by a unit’s local IT team, Technology Services has created a resource for relevant campus technologies during the pandemic.
Visit the remote work essentials page for more technology support and resources.
The university asked colleges, institutes and major units to create localized unit plans for returning to in-person operations. Additionally, each unit has been asked to identify at least one COVID Coordinator to be the point person for COVID-related efforts for their unit.
Remote workers should review their unit’s plans as well as contact their unit’s COVID Coordinator if they have any questions.
Employees who cannot work remotely but who have childcare obligations or are in the higher risk population can access the benefits under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA), which provides paid leave for situations related to COVID-19.
Employees can utilize personal vacation leave benefits, if approved by their unit.
There is no reason for students to be required to work remotely if they have returned to campus and are following on-campus guidelines and requirements. However, student positions whose work can be completed remotely can request to work remotely. Additionally, supervisors may ask student workers who do not comply with on-campus requirements, including on-campus testing, to work remotely until they are in compliance with on-campus requirements.
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
