https://covid19.illinois.edu/health-and-support/testing-positive-for-covid-19/
Testing Positive for COVID-19 – COVID-19
The University has plans and processes in place to help maximize safety and minimize the spread of COVID-19. 
Individuals who take an on-campus test will be notified of results via email through the McKinley Patient Health Portal. It is critically important that you check your university email account daily and access your results in the McKinley Patient Health Portal upon receiving notification of test result availability.
Contact tracing efforts are now centralized by the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH). If you test positive for COVID-19 you will receive an automated text message from IDPH with contact information on how to opt-in to contact tracing.
If you have previously tested positive for COVID-19 at an off-campus location, you should submit your off-campus positive test result to the MyMcKinley Portal.
If you have been released from isolation, there are steps that you can follow to ease your transition back to full campus participation.
If you are a student and you test positive for COVID-19, the university will send you a text message shortly after your test is processed. The message will look like this:
Please remember to respond Y to the message to indicate you have taken steps to immediately isolate. 
If you receive a positive test, you will need to email your instructors and let them know you will be absent from class. You do not need to share any specific health information with them.
If you are in remote courses, you may continue to attend class online if you are able.
You can use the OSF OnCall Connect program that provides information, support and guidance at no cost to you.
The Student Assistance Center (217-333-0050; helpdean@illinois.edu) is also available to help you understand university policies and procedures and connect you with resources, whether related to COVID-19 or other challenges that you may be experiencing.
If you are a faculty or staff member and you test positive for COVID-19, the university will send you a text message shortly after your test is processed. The message will look like this:
Please remember to respond Y to the message to indicate you have taken steps to immediately isolate. 
For questions about text messages for faculty and staff, please call the confidential IHR COVID-19 hotline at 217-300-9005.
Employees who receive a positive test are required to notify Illinois Human Resources by calling 217-300-9005. Illinois Human Resources will provide information about paid leave options, as well as collect information that will help ensure we take any necessary cleaning or sanitation steps.
You must inform your unit of your absence, but you do not need to share specific health information. IHR will only provide information necessary to take any appropriate safety actions.
If you are doing remote work, you may continue to work if you are able.
You can use the OSF On Call program that provides information, support and guidance at no cost to you.
If you have been released from isolation (tested positive for COVID-19), there are steps that you can follow to ease your transition back to full campus participation.
IDPH will provide information about ending isolation. If you are still experiencing symptoms, you should continue to isolate. 
For individuals in isolation (tested positive for COVID-19), your building access status will automatically update after Day 5 of your isolation period. Individuals are expected to follow CDC guidance and should continue to isolate if they still have symptoms. 
If your app has not been updated after 24 hours, please contact the COVID Wellness Answer Center at covidwellness@illinois.edu. Please include your name, UIN and the date you were permitted to leave isolation.
Individuals only need to return to their regular testing schedule if the university requires them to do so. Visit the testing page for more information on testing requirements.
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
