https://covid19.illinois.edu/on-campus/facilities-and-operations/
Facilities and Operations – COVID-19
While university operations continue, some services may have transitioned to alternative delivery methods. Please contact specific campus offices or departments for the latest information about a facility’s availability.
COVID-19 signage is available for university buildings and public spaces. Additionally, sign templates have been created that units and offices can print out and hang in their spaces. 
Units can access these signs from a Box folder.
Ahead of the start of this academic year, Facilities & Services examined the ventilation systems of all classrooms and made any adjustments necessary to meet recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) for the operation of HVAC systems. You can see a report of their activities. If you have specific questions or concerns, reach out to our Facilities & Services team at covid19fsconsulting@illinois.edu.
Building Services has established covid19cleaning@illinois.edu to receive campus questions and feedback regarding cleaning and disinfecting activities. Departmental staff will respond as soon as practical after reviewing each inquiry. After an individual who has recently been in a university facility tests positive, please fill out the short form and provide details about the potential exposure risk and related departmental contact information. Building Services will use the report to review the potentially affected areas, develop a building-specific response plan, and follow-up with the designated faculty and staff.
Facilities & Services Health and Safety Response Teams are available by appointment to consult with departments and units on questions. Requests for assistance should be directed to covid19fsconsulting@illinois.edu.
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
