https://covid19.illinois.edu/health-and-support/on-campus-covid-19-testing/
On-Campus COVID-19 Testing – COVID-19
General
Students
Instructors
Employees
On-Campus COVID-19 Testing
An effective testing program is a crucial part of minimizing the spread of COVID-19 in a community, and testing innovations were developed by the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
On This Page
Testing requirements
Faculty, staff and students who are not fully vaccinated (defined as 14 days after final dose) with a university-verified vaccination record in the MyMcKinley Portal are required to test once per week.
All residents (vaccinated and unvaccinated) of any building that is identified as having a higher prevalence of COVID-19 than the state average are required to test every other day until further notice. Individuals in these buildings will be emailed when they should begin testing, and they will be emailed again when the targeted testing requirement is lifted.
COVID-19 compliance
Read more about COVID-19 policy enforcement.
COVID-19 policies are enforceable through existing progressive discipline processes, which may result in loss of employment.
On-campus testing accommodations
Students unable to wait in line due to the increased risk of exposure to COVID-19 based on the CDC guidelines for individuals who are at a higher risk of severe complications or students unable to utilize the walk-up facilities with accommodations are eligible to utilize the COVID-19 Drive-up/Curbside Testing Request at Campus Recreation Center East by requesting this alternate method through DRES. This accommodation is limited and only available between 9am-11am at Campus Recreation Center East. Drive-up/curbside testing requests must be submitted to DRES and ID and name checks for approval will take place at the drive-up testing location.
Nasal testing alternative
Faculty, staff and students can call 217-244-5661 to schedule a nasal testing appointment.
Alternative COVID-19 testing option for individuals observing Ramadan 
Individuals fasting during Ramadan who may be concerned about producing a saliva sample for COVID-19 testing can request a nasal swab test to satisfy testing requirements. This option will be available between April 2 and May 2, 2022. Students, faculty and staff can call the McKinley Health Center at 217-244-5661 for an appointment. Please state that you are requesting the nasal swab test because you are fasting to observe Ramadan.
Off-campus tests
To participate in on-campus activities, you must participate in the on-campus testing program. If you do get a positive COVID-19 result from an off-campus testing location, you should upload your results to the MyMcKinley Portal.
FAQ
If you forget a testing day, you should be tested as soon as possible.
If you will be away from campus for less than a week, test the day before you leave. Then, if you receive a noncompliance email from the Office for Student Conflict Resolution, please indicate the reason for missing a test. If you will be away from campus for more than a week, update your Student Location address in Student Self-Service. Remember to update this address again when you return to campus. You should resume testing as soon as you return.
This would be considered an absence and our regular academic policies and practices would apply. Your course syllabus will explain how absences are addressed. In addition to the possible academic penalties, failure to complete your required testing could also result in action through the student discipline process.
No, students who are taking all online courses do not need to fill out an exemption form. Please make sure your address information is updated in Self Service.
Yes. But that is the only building you will be able to enter until you have checked in at a testing site and until you have received a negative test result. If you have a current University Housing contract, you will always be able to enter your residence hall.
Faculty, staff and students can call 217-244-5661 to schedule a nasal testing appointment.
Please consider supporting COVID relief efforts, including the SHIELD initiative or direct student funding, by making a gift  today!
