https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/study-abroad
Study Abroad, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Study Abroad
The experiences you have when you study abroad are going to change the way you look at the world and your life in relation to it.
Go anywhere.
Where you study abroad is up to you. Through our programs, you have the freedom to choose the place you want to experience, how long you want to be there, and even the language in which you want to be taught.
View Programs

300 programs in 50+ countries

The world is wide open.
Below is a small sampling of the places you can explore and the things you can do when you study abroad.
Reflection in Ghana
Learn about the history of the world through exploration and conversation.

Learn about the history of the world through exploration and conversation.
Interning in Ecuador
Boost your professional experience by participating in an internship with local organizations.

Boost your professional experience by participating in an internship with local organizations.
Language Learning in Bologna
Become fluent in classes taught only in Italian while exploring what Europe’s oldest university has to offer.

Become fluent in classes taught only in Italian while exploring what Europe’s oldest university has to offer.
Rainforest Restoration in Australia
Help to restore the country’s tropical rainforests while studying current ecological issues and performing hands-on research.

Help to restore the country’s tropical rainforests while studying current ecological issues and performing hands-on research.
Business in Hong Kong
Study the world of business in a cultural hub at one of Asia’s top universities.

Study the world of business in a cultural hub at one of Asia’s top universities.
Don't fret the expense.
You’ll be surprised by how reasonable the cost of studying abroad can be. Many programs are similar to the cost of studying at UIUC, and your financial aid usually counts. Plus, scholarships are often available through our colleges.
The Great Unknown
Studying in a country you know nothing about is intimidating to say the least, but Steven was up for the challenge.
Read Story
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
