https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Campus-Life/traditions
Traditions, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Traditions
Our university is steeped in tradition, thanks to those who walked this campus before you. Now it’s your turn!
Be a part of it.
Homecoming
UIUC is rumored to have invented the tradition of homecoming over 100 years ago. It’s now one of the biggest events on campus!
Alma Mater
Alma welcomes everyone to the heart of campus. Whether in her gameday gear or graduation robes, she’s one of our most iconic figures.
Morrow Plots
Located in the center of campus, the Morrow Plots are the oldest experimental cornfields in the entire Western Hemisphere.
Eternal Flame
Take a study break at the Eternal Flame or bring your significant other here for a kiss. Rumor is "a lover’s kiss will bring eternal bliss!"
Altgeld Chimes
Not only do these bells mark the time, but every weekday a concert is held for those walking to class after lunchtime. Along with "Hail to the Orange," you might just hear the Beatles or Harry Potter!
Lincoln's Nose
A bust of Abraham Lincoln sits near the entrance of Lincoln Hall. So why’s its nose gold? Students rub it for good luck before taking exams!
Marching Illini
John Philip Sousa once dubbed our Marching Illini the "world’s greatest college band." These students have entertained fans with both traditional and innovative performances since 1907.
Quad Day
Each year, hundreds of student groups gather on the Quad the day before classes start in an effort to recruit new members.
Squirrels
Now a permanent fixture at UIUC, these furry creatures were first brought to campus in 1901 at the request of university president Andrew S. Draper.
Block I
Known for its halftime card-stunt performances, our football student section is one of the oldest in the nation!
Orange Krush
Part of the Fighting Illini’s home-court advantage, the students in Orange Krush also raise money for local charities and organizations.
An Interview With Alma Mater
We sat down beside Alma (she insisted on standing) to learn more about her experience as one of the most famous landmarks on campus.
Read More
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
