https://admissions.illinois.edu/FAQ/applicant-transfer
Transfer Applicant FAQ, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Application deadlines can be found on our dates page.
Prerequisite course requirements for each program of study are indicated in our Transfer Handbook. If you've attended a college or university in Illinois, our Transfer Guide is also useful.
Colleges and programs of study have varying minimum GPA requirements from 2.25 to 4.0. Refer to our transfer GPA guidelines for more information.
Yes, all transfer students can list a second-choice major on their application. We encourage you to look at our Transfer Handbook to determine a logical second-choice major that fits your academic goals.
Majors unavailable as a second choice include all Gies Business majors, Computer Science (including all Computer Science + X majors), Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and all Music majors except Music BA, which does not require an audition.
Yes, you must submit an official, final high school transcript or an official copy of your high school equivalency exam results to verify graduation. High school performance will only be reviewed if you have fewer than 30 graded transferable semester hours at the time of application. Coursework on your high school transcript may apply to the language other than English requirement.
If you have fewer than 30 graded transferable semester hours of college coursework when you apply, you can choose to submit official ACT or SAT scores if you feel they will add value to your application. Scores must be sent directly from the testing agency and dated within five years of your enrollment at UIUC. Please see our test-optional section for more information.
Please review our listed conditions to prove English proficiency. If you choose not to submit ACT/SAT scores in the review of your application, you may need to prove English proficiency through another method detailed in the link above. If you choose to submit ACT/SAT scores, we still recommend you submit an English proficiency exam if you are a non-native English speaker.
Until you receive your green card, we'll consider you an international applicant. When you receive your green card, send us a copy, and we’ll change your status within our system. Read more about residency.
No, we’ll only request financial documents and official transcripts if you’re admitted to the university and choose to attend.
Your application will be considered incomplete and won’t be processed until we receive your application fee or an authorized fee waiver. If you pay the fee at the time of your application submission, we strongly encourage payment by credit card. If you choose to pay later, you can pay by credit card through your status page in myIllini.
If you apply for spring entry, you’ll be notified of a decision by mid-December. If you apply for fall entry, you’ll be notified of a decision by mid-April. If you're applying for fall or summer admission, we strongly recommend applying after you complete your fall courses so those grades can be included in your admission review.
For transfer applicants with fewer than 30 graded and transferable credit hours at the time of application, we use high school credentials (high school courses/grades and standardized test scores) in the review process. Such applicants can choose whether to have ACT and/or SAT scores included in the review of their application. They will be asked if they wish for their scores to be included during the transfer process.
We encourage you to submit your scores if you feel they accurately represent your ability.
No, you will not be able to change your test-optional selection after you've submitted the application.
Any scores that were previously sent will not be added to your application file.
Yes, ACT/SAT scores are not required to apply to any major.
Please review our listed conditions to prove English proficiency. If you choose not to submit ACT/SAT scores in the review of your application, you may need to prove English proficiency through another method detailed in the link above. If you choose to submit ACT/SAT scores, we still recommend you submit an English proficiency exam if you are a non-native English speaker.
We will use a holistic review of your admissions application with or without an ACT or SAT.
No, if you do not submit ACT/SAT scores with the application, we will not accept them later for any enrollment purposes, including course placement or proficiency.
Official test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency; we don't accept copies of student score reports. Our ACT code is 1154, and our SAT code is 1836.
We’ll evaluate your classes after you submit your application and application fee. Students attending 2-year and some 4-year institutions in Illinois may work with an advisor at their current institution. To review courses for transferability, refer to Transferology.
We accept the IAI General Education Core on a course-by-course basis, applying courses completed in the core to campus general education requirements. Some programs of study require specific general education courses. Please consult the Transfer Handbook for information on courses required.
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
