https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Academics/professors
Professors, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Professors
Our professors are renowned in their fields and constantly finding new ways to change the world through their teaching and research.

17:1 student-to-faculty ratio

It's easy to get to know your professors.
UIUC faculty members are accessible, even outside of the classroom. You can attend their office hours to discuss topics from class and network for research or internship opportunities.
Take note.
We have too many great professors and too little space, but here are a few worth noting.
Leon Dash
Journalism
A former Washington Post reporter and Pulitzer Prize–winning author for his work on poverty and crime in Washington, D.C.
Mats Selen
Physics
A 2015 national professor of the year and particle physics specialist who has put his passion for physics education toward the development of the iClicker and other interactive learning tools.
Yvonne Redman
Voice
A main-stage soprano at the Metropolitan Opera for 15 years who's shared the stage with the likes of Placido Domingo, Luciano Pavarotti, and Renée Fleming.
Madhu Viswanathan
Business Administration
Uses research and teaching to help direct the world toward sustainable marketplaces, believing "it is essential to do good in order to do well."
Lessons in Leisure
Professor Michael Raycraft takes his Recreation, Sport, and Tourism students on a yearly trip, giving them an opportunity to meet professionals in their field and explore potential career options.
Read Story
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
