https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Campus-Life/diversity
Diversity, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
We strive to foster an environment defined by diversity, inclusion, and openness. With new ideas, experiences, and perspectives constantly available to you, our campus provides a space in which all students can succeed on their terms.
116 countries represented on campus
50 U.S. states represented on campus
Open to all students, our cultural houses help you celebrate your own heritage and give you a better appreciation for other ways of life.
Every Illini has a journey. These are their stories.
Just 15 years old when he began college, Taofik became an integral part of the engineering and business colleges and interned with 4 (!) Fortune 500 companies while at UIUC.
Read More about Taofik
UIUC student body president Alexis, a first-generation Illini who never settles for less than the best, is working to improve access to mental health resources on campus.
Read More about Alexis
Future educator and resident advisor for University Housing, Devon is following in her father's footsteps to become an advocate for the next generation.
Read More about Devon
Our resource centers work to foster an environment that's open, safe, and inclusive for people of all backgrounds and identities, and they offer opportunities for you to network and build support systems on campus.
Our Office of Minority Student Affairs (OMSA) supports the academic achievement, personal development, and graduation rates of first-generation, low-income, and historically underrepresented students at UIUC.
Explore Services
What do Illini have to say about The OMSA? Read about two students' experiences.

What do Illini have to say about The OMSA? Read about two students' experiences.
UIUC offers nearly 100 student groups related to culture and diversity, and you can explore them all before arriving on campus. Don't see what you're looking for? You can always create your own group as an Illini, too!
Search Groups
The Principal's Scholars Program is a statewide mathematics and science initiative created by UIUC. It works with parents and teachers to prepare disadvantaged students for college preparatory pathways. The Principal's Scholars Program operates in 66 elementary, middle, and high schools in the state of Illinois.
Operating throughout the academic school year, our Peer Recruitment Program provides current students the opportunity to join our efforts in recruiting African American, Hispanic, and Native American students. Peer Recruiters volunteer for campus visit events and visit high schools in the Chicago area with admissions staff over winter breaks. At these events, Peer Recruiters answer questions about their student experiences and interact with students, encouraging the pursuit of higher education and celebrating UIUC.
We partner with four Chicago Public Schools each year to invite high-achieving, low-income ninth- and tenth-grade underrepresented students to experience a day on campus. This program helps to build long-term relationships with student participants and their high schools.
African American sophomores and juniors from the Chicago area are invited to campus to talk to staff and current students, tour a residence hall, and visit the Bruce D. Nesbitt African American Cultural Center. Bus transportation is provided.
Seniors from the city of Chicago and other high schools in the Chicago area are invited to Multicultural Academic Achievement Receptions, where they're recognized for their academic achievements. We provide them with information about the college search process and encourage them to consider applying to UIUC. One of the receptions we offer is bilingual in nature (English and Spanish). We also host a Multicultural Academic Achievement Reception in Champaign for local students and their families.
We host specific visit days for Hispanic prospective students and their families. Including an overview of UIUC, a student panel, and a campus tour, these programs are held entirely in Spanish.
This day-long campus visit program for admitted African American students from the state of Illinois includes an overview of UIUC and admitted next steps, meetings with our colleges, conversations with current students, a tour of the Bruce D. Nesbitt African American Cultural Center, and productions by our performing arts groups. Bus transportation is provided.
Admitted students from EOP schools in the Chicago area and their families are invited to attend one of our Next-Up receptions. Attendees learn about the dynamic opportunities offered at UIUC through presentations and dinner conversations with staff, current students, and alumni. One of the receptions we offer is bilingual in nature (English and Spanish).
Admitted students from Chicago Public Schools and their families are invited to a special Illini Day program. This includes a campus resources fair and an overview of admitted next steps like housing, new student registration, and financial aid. Families have the opportunity to interact with current students, attend a meeting with the college to which they've been admitted, meet one-on-one with Financial Aid, and tour campus. Optional activities are also available for families to explore our residence halls, cultural centers, campus recreation centers, and more. Bus transportation is provided.
Admitted students from Chicago Public Schools and their families are invited to campus for a Chicago Illini Day each year. Bus transportation is provided. During the program, families receive information about housing, summer registration, next steps, and more. The day also includes lunch in a university dining hall, a campus tour, and a visit to our Illini Union Bookstore.
This day-long campus program is for President's Award Scholarship recipients and their families. It includes a reception, meetings with our colleges, a current student panel, informational sessions on student resources, and a residence hall lunch and tour. Transportation is provided from Chicago.
This dinner is for our President's Award Honors Scholarship recipients and their families. During the event, admissions and college representatives share the many opportunities available at UIUC and answer any questions students have.
Want to learn more about UIUC?
Sign Up Now
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
