https://admissions.illinois.edu/Visit/cu
Champaign-Urbana, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Champaign-Urbana
The microurban twin cities of Champaign and Urbana combine to form a vibrant, innovative community in which our campus is the heart. As you explore the many perks of big-city living in this relaxed setting, you’ll quickly understand why we earn regular honors as a top college town.

A top 10 U.S. college town
(Livability)
About Town
Living local is the culture in C-U, with 2 distinct downtowns that will enhance your campus experience. Discover live music, festivals, theaters, boutiques, and over 50 locally owned restaurants that can be enjoyed throughout the year.

Explore C-U
What's going on?
Something's always happening in C-U. Get familiar with some of our yearly highlights.
Pygmalion
Rooted in music and happening each September across C-U, a festival that's expanded to include literature, makers, and local food—and it's still growing!
Illinois Marathon
A Boston Marathon qualifier bringing thousands of runners from across the nation and beyond to C-U.
Boneyard Arts Festival
Held on Mom's Weekend, a county-wide festival featuring hundreds of local visual and music artists across a variety of venues.
Ebertfest
A film festival created by film critic and UIUC alum Roger Ebert, hosted at the historic Virginia Theater in downtown Champaign.
Market at the Square
Located in downtown Urbana, one of the largest and most diverse farmers’ markets in the state of Illinois.

#1 Midwest food town
(Midwest Living)
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
