https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Admitted/summer-registration
New Student Registration, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
New Student Registration
During New Student Registration, you’ll meet with academic advisors and register for fall courses.
Page Contents
Sign-Up Process
New Student Registration sign-ups begin in mid-March. To sign up, you'll need to take the following steps:
Preparing for Your Appointment
College Homework & Placement Exams
Homework and placement exams will be available in myIllini beginning in May. They'll help you prepare and allow your advisor to best assist you in choosing classes that are right for you. Make sure to finish your homework and any placement exams you’re required to take at least two weeks before your registration date, or your reservation may be subject to cancellation.
Please note that any Grainger College of Engineering student who has not completed the ALEKS math assessment exam one week prior to their New Student Registration date will have their program date rescheduled.
College Meetings
When you sign up for registration, your college will send you more details to help you prepare for your appointment. Be on the lookout for more information on this page in the near future, too!
Registration System
Learn how to navigate our registration system and review step-by-step instructions for registering.
View Instructions
General Campus Resources
Following are a variety of resources available to you at UIUC. We hope they help you make a smooth transition. This isn’t an exhaustive list, so if you don’t see what you’re looking for, please don’t hesitate to reach out to us!
Student Life
Student Services
Cultural & Resource Centers
International Student Resources
International Student & Scholar Services provides many resources, including the following, to help you prepare for your arrival and time at the university.
Need Internet Access?
As part of a multi-agency effort to improve Broadband access, the State of Illinois offers a Drive-Up WiFi Hotspot Map. All publicly available hotspots indicated on this map are available for remote learning and other uses at this time.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
