https://admissions.illinois.edu/Visit/virtual-visits
Virtual Visits, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Visit Us Virtually
Info Sessions, Tours, Videos, Stories & More
Get Connected
We offer daily info sessions with admissions counselors and a variety of options for engaging with our academic communities.


                                Info Sessions 


Want to learn more about UIUC or your next steps? Our admissions counselors are hosting info sessions daily.


                                Transfer One-On-Ones 


Set up a one-on-one meeting with an admissions counselor to discuss our application process or your next steps to enrollment. Sessions are 15 minutes each.


                                Academic Meetings 


Each of our academic communities offers unique ways to interact and discover what it's like to be a student.
Take a Tour
Photo Tour
Get a better picture of all corners of campus through our photo tour.
Take Tour
Touring Time
Get to know prominent locations on campus in this YouTube series.
Watch Now
More Tours
Looking for something more specific to you and your interests?
Browse
Explore Campus
View prominent locations featured in our Touring Time video series and learn where they are in relation to the rest of campus.
View Map
A Day in the Life
Premium Videos
Learn more about UIUC directly from students or watch an admissions info session on your own time.
Get Access
Champaign-Urbana
A Top 10 U.S. College Town (Livability)
Meet Our Students
California Connection
Best friends Surabhi and Siddhi met their first week on campus.
Read More about Surabhi and Siddhi
Illini Esports
Illini Esports is a popular and growing student group at UIUC.
Read More about Illini esports
Lights, Camera, Fabian!
Acting was always part of Fabian's plan. UIUC wasn't.
Read More about Fabian
Read Our Blog
How to Get Around Campus
Julissa breaks down the best ways to traverse UIUC and whether you really need a car.
Read More about getting around on campus
Being Natural in College
Taylor has worn her hair natural since her first year on campus. She's sharing her best tips with you.
Read More about being natural
Club Sports at UIUC
Franklin joined the rugby team for a better sense of familiarity in a foreign country.
Read More about Franklin
Class Visits
Get a glimpse of what a real college class looks like through our video recordings! We'll continue to add classes throughout the semester.
Explore Options
Get More Info
Want to learn more about UIUC?
Sign Up Now
Follow Us
Text Us
You've got questions and we have admissions counselors ready to help.
Monday – Friday2 – 4 p.m. CST
Text 217-600-2234
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
