https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Freshman/requirements
First-Year Application Requirements, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Requirements for First-Year Applicants
As you prepare, we want you to know the things we expect from our applicants. You may also want to take a look at our application process and how we review.
Course Rigor
Taking advanced classes can increase your chance of being accepted to UIUC, as tougher coursework proves you like a challenge and are willing to work hard. Taking rigorous coursework in subject areas related to your future major also demonstrates an interest and strong foundation in your future academic track. We want you to challenge yourself given what’s available at your school, provided you can still be successful inside and outside of the classroom.
Coursework & Grades
Following are the kinds of courses you need to take while in high school and the number of years you need to take them. You should work to consistently make strong grades in these courses.
Extracurriculars
When we review your application, we want to know what’s important to you. The quality of your involvement outside the classroom is much more important than quantity. Take part in the activities you're passionate about and enjoy. We take notice when you demonstrate leadership skills and show long-term commitment to the things you love.
Related Experiences
If you know what major you want to pursue at UIUC, seek out experiences and opportunities related to it now. Doing so will not only show your passion and motivation, but it will also help you get a feel for your potential field. If you don't know what you want to do yet, don't stress! This is your chance to explore any areas of interest you might have.
Test Scores
ACT/SAT (if provided)
We accept either the ACT or SAT, and we don’t prefer one over the other. If you provide your scores, they will be used in our decision-making process, as well as for course placement and academic advising. They may also be a factor when it comes to scholarship and aid decisions. For the middle 50% score range, view our class profile.
TOEFL/IELTS/Duolingo English Test
A TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test score may be required or strongly recommended to demonstrate a command of the English language.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
Want more info?
