https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Campus-Life/safety
Safety, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Safety
Campus should be a safe space for our students, and we go to great lengths to keep it that way. 
COVID-19 Campus Safety Measures
UIUC is privileged to include some of the world’s leading minds on COVID-19 safety, testing, and procedures. Their knowledge helped us craft one of the most robust testing programs in higher education. This school year, we're continuing our efforts to keep our campus community safe.
Learn More
University of Illinois Police Department
Our police department has the highest accreditation possible, and they're very transparent in providing you information. In fact, we were recently recognized as the top Clery compliance program in the country.
How We Protect You
Our police department is an accredited Tier II ILEAP agency, meaning their policies are recognized as highly effective and in line with the best practices in law enforcement. We have 4 police departments located within about a mile's radius of campus, and all are available to patrol and respond to emergencies. They work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with a student patrol for extra monitoring. We also take extra precautions throughout campus, including coded keys, security cameras, emergency telephones, and bright lighting.

1,900 security cameras
Things You Can Do
To start, review the safety tips outlined by our Police Department. Suggestions include utilizing campus resources like SafeWalks and SafeRides and attending safety classes and programs. You can also download the Illinois Student Mobile App, which includes important safety-related phone numbers.
If there’s an emergency, you’ll know.
Illini-Alert sends mass texts and email messages to keep you updated on emergency situations at UIUC. All you have to do is sign up when you get to campus!
For more about safety on campus, visit our Police Department or read our Annual Security Report.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
