https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Campus-Life/housing
Housing, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Housing
It doesn’t matter where you choose to live. Our halls are filled with potential best friends, so much stuff to do, and really good food.
Finding Your Housing Fit: University Housing vs. Private Certified Housing
First-time attending students are required to live in university-approved housing. But with 37 options, where do you start? Let us help you find your perfect housing fit.
Read More
Find your place in University Housing.
Our university knows how to give you the classic college experience. You’ll be part of a close-knit community, with support available whenever you need it and a meal plan that lets you eat at any dining hall on campus.
Explore UH

24 university housing options

Want to live with people who really get you?
Join one of 11 Living-Learning Communities (LLCs), where you’ll meet other students with the same interests as you. Our LLCs even offer on-site classes and field trips related to the things you love most.
Explore LLCs
Get comfortable in Private Certified Housing.
Approved by UIUC for all students, our Private Certified Housing facilities offer a different experience from that of the traditional residence hall. You’ll find everything from air conditioning and semi-private bathrooms to in-room kitchens and fitness centers. One even has its own swimming pool!
Explore PCH

13 private certified housing options

Thinking of joining a fraternity or sorority?
Of the 90 chapters on campus, close to 50 offer housing. Each facility is privately owned and operated, with rates comparable to other living options. Once you’ve been granted membership into the house of your choice, living with your new sisters or brothers makes for great bonding.
Transfers have options too.
Our campus offers university residence halls, graduate upper-division halls, Private Certified Housing, and pet-friendly university-owned apartments.
If you're required to live in housing owned or certified by the university, don't worry—you’re not limited! You have many choices within our undergraduate halls, including our transfer community in Scott Hall. This community focuses specifically on your interests and needs as you transition to UIUC.
If you've lived in a residence hall before, you may be eligible to live off campus. Please check with the Housing Information Office before securing housing with a private landlord. Our Off-Campus Community Living office can help you find an apartment, review your lease contract, answer questions about landlord complaint histories, and more.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
