https://admissions.illinois.edu/Visit/Campus-Visits/programs
In-Person Visit Options, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
In-Person Visit Options
The best way to know if a school is for you is simply by being there. Visit and find out for yourself what it’s like to be an Illini.
Tips for Scheduling Your Visit
Admissions Info Sessions & Campus Tours
Learn more about the admissions process and take a tour of campus! Select any program below, and you’ll have the option to add a college meeting while registering.


                            First-Year Students
                        

Held most weekdays and select Saturdays, these events are around two-and-a-half hours in length. They begin with a 45-minute presentation on your next steps as an admitted student and how you'll unleash your power at UIUC, followed by a 15-minute Q&A session with current students. A student will then lead you on an hour-and-a-half walking tour through the heart of campus.
Register for an Admitted Presentation & Campus Tour
These large, day-long events begin with a presentation on your next steps as an admitted student and how you'll unleash your power at UIUC, followed by a Q&A session with current students. You'll then have opportunities to tour campus and attend sessions hosted by the college or major you were admitted into, Housing, and Financial Aid. You can expect your visit to end mid-afternoon.
Register for an Admitted Illini Day
Held most weekdays and select Saturdays, these events are around two-and-a-half hours in length. They begin with a 45-minute presentation on our admissions process and how you'll harness your power at UIUC, followed by a 15-minute Q&A session with current students. A student will then lead you on an hour-and-a-half walking tour through the heart of campus.
Register for a Prospective Presentation & Campus Tour


                            Transfer Students
                        

Held most weekdays and select Saturdays, these events are around two-and-a-half hours in length. They begin with a 45-minute presentation on your next steps as an admitted student and how you'll unleash your power at UIUC, followed by a 15-minute Q&A session with current students. A student will then lead you on an hour-and-a-half walking tour through the heart of campus.
Register for an Admitted Transfer Info Session & Campus Tour
This large, day-long event begins with a presentation on your next steps as an admitted student and how you'll unleash your power at UIUC, followed by a Q&A session with current students. You'll then have opportunities to tour campus and attend sessions hosted by the college or major you were admitted into, Housing, and Financial Aid. You can expect your visit to end mid-afternoon.
Register for an Admitted Transfer Illini Day
Held on select Fridays, these events are around two-and-a-half hours in length. They begin with a 45-minute presentation on our transfer admissions process and how you'll harness your power at UIUC, followed by a 15-minute student panel. A student will then lead you on an hour-and-a-half walking tour through the heart of campus.
Register for a Prospective Transfer Info Session & Campus Tour


                            Groups
                        

High school groups of 8 to 50 students are welcome to visit UIUC through our free program. In addition to this two- to three-hour event, you’re also able to schedule a session with a cultural house. While we don’t provide lunch, groups may bring sack lunches, eat at the Illini Union, explore local restaurants on their own, or purchase dining hall tickets.
Register for a Group Visit
Academic Meetings, Tours, & More
At UIUC, we offer over 150 majors within 11 academic communities. Note that available dates vary by academic community. Select any program below, and you’ll have the option to add an admissions info session and campus tour while registering.


                              Agricultural, Consumer, & Environmental Sciences
                          

Explore the College of Agricultural, Consumer, & Environmental Sciences (ACES) as an admitted student through our special Saturday admitted session!
Register for Admitted Session
Meetings are also available on select days with the following academic areas:
ACES Undeclared
Agricultural & Biological Engineering
Agricultural & Consumer Economics
Animal Sciences
Agricultural Leadership, Education, & Communication
Computer Science + Crop Sciences
Crop Sciences
Engineering Technology & Management for Agricultural Systems
Food Science & Human Nutrition
Human Development & Family Studies
Metropolitian Food & Environmental Systems
Natural Resources & Environmental Sciences
Plant Biotechnology
Learn about the College of Agricultural, Consumer, & Environmental Sciences (ACES) and everything it can offer you through a daily session or our special Experience ACES events.
Daily Sessions
Experience ACES


                              Applied Health Sciences
                          

Chat with an Applied Health Sciences (AHS) undergraduate recruiter to learn about majors, career paths, and outstanding hands-on opportunities in the College of AHS!
Register for Admitted Meeting
Chat with an Applied Health Sciences (AHS) undergraduate recruiter to learn about majors, career paths, and outstanding hands-on opportunities in the College of AHS!
Register for Prospective Meeting


                              Education
                          

Chat with an Education undergraduate recruiter to learn more about your major and the wonderful opportunities and career options through our college!
Register for Prospective Meeting
Join the College of Education to learn about the wonderful programs available to students who are interested in transformative change through education.
Register for Prospective Meeting


                              Fine & Applied Arts
                          

Join the College of Fine and Applied Arts (FAA) for a special welcome event, where you'll mix and mingle with various FAA tables and visit with your department for a meeting, tour, or workshop.
Register for Prospective Session
Attend an information session by the College of Fine & Applied Arts (FAA), where you’ll hear from current students and staff from across the college. You'll get a closer look at FAA, which offers degree programs in Architecture, Art and Design, Dance, Landscape Architecture, Music, Sustainable Design, Theatre, and Urban Planning! Tours of some units may be available.
Register for Prospective Session


                              General Studies
                          

Get an overview of what it’s like to be a Division of General Studies (DGS) undeclared student at UIUC. We'll discuss how we support our undeclared students and assist in the major exploration process. Students should be admitted to DGS or interested in being an undeclared student at UIUC.
Register for an Admitted Meeting
Get an overview of what it’s like to be a Division of General Studies (DGS) undeclared student at UIUC. We'll discuss how we support our undeclared students and assist in the major exploration process. Students should be interested in being an undeclared student at UIUC.
Register for a Prospective Meeting


                              Gies Business
                          

During these sessions, we'll present and discuss all things related to Gies Business for admitted students, from next steps toward enrollment to life as a Gies Business student. Sessions are available most Mondays, Tuesdays, and Fridays when signing up for an admissions info session and campus tour. For additional admitted student programs, visit our Gies Business website.
During these sessions, we'll present and discuss all things related to Gies Business for prospective students, from applying to choosing a major to preparing for your future career.
First-Year
Transfer


                              Grainger Engineering
                          

Join our Grainger Engineering tour guides for a 90-minute walking tour of our two engineering quads, attend a Q&A session with one of our assistant deans, an advisor, and/or members of our recruitment team, or both! For additional admitted student programs, check out our Grainger Engineering website.
Register for an Admitted Tour or Q&A
Join our Grainger Engineering tour guides for an 80-minute walking tour of our two engineering quads, attend a Q&A session with one of our assistant deans, an advisor, and/or members of our recruitment team, or both! For additional prospective student programs, visit our event portal or Grainger Engineering website.
Register for a Tour or Q&A


                              Liberal Arts & Sciences
                          

Explore the academic, career development, leadership, and research opportunities in the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences (LAS)! We'll also answer any questions you may have to ensure your next steps toward enrollment.
First-Year
Transfer
Meetings are also available on select days with the following academic areas:
Philosophy
Learn all about the academic, career development, global learning, and research opportunities available in the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences (LAS).
First-Year
Transfer


                              Media
                          

These sessions for admitted students in the College of Media will focus on ways to get involved in student media at UIUC and give attendants the opportunity to ask questions of our current student panel.
First-Year
Transfer
Meetings are also available on select days with the following academic areas:
Advertising
Computer Science + Advertising
Journalism
Media & Cinema Studies
If you're just starting to explore your interest in the College of Media, attend one of these sessions to learn more about our four majors and ways to get involved with student media at UIUC.
Register for a Prospective Session


                              Information Sciences
                          

During this School of Information Sciences (iSchool) session, you'll learn about our Information Sciences degree and the numerous opportunities you'll have to thrive academically and professionally. You'll also take a tour of our new building.
Register for an Admitted Session
Students admitted to the iSchool are also invited to sign up for a special welcome event, where you'll interact with current faculty, students, and staff:
Welcome Event
During this School of Information Sciences (iSchool) session, you'll learn about our Information Sciences degree and the numerous opportunities you'll have to thrive academically and professionally. You'll also take a tour of our new building.
Register for a Prospective Session


                              Social Work
                          

Meet with a member of the School of Social Work team to learn more about the classroom environment, hands-on learning experiences, and career outcomes for our students.
First-Year
Transfer
Meet with a member of the School of Social Work team to learn more about the classroom environment, hands-on learning experiences, and career outcomes for our students.
First-Year
Transfer


                              Housing
                          

The Admissions campus tour includes a housing tour of our Illinois Street Residence (ISR) Halls. Additional housing tours are offered from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m. every weekday and select Saturdays. Walk-in tours offered through University Housing include Nugent Hall or a more in-depth look at Illinois Street Residence (ISR) Halls. You can also pre-arrange a Private Certified Housing tour directly with the facility of your choice.
Preparing to Visit
Find everything you need to plan for your trip to campus, including our current COVID-19 guidelines, directions and parking, and accommodations.
Visit Us Virtually
Can't make it to campus right now? No worries! We also offer a variety of virtual options, including admissions info sessions, college meettings, and video and photo tours.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
