https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Campus-Life/activities
Activities, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Activities
The college experience extends beyond the walls of the classroom. At UIUC, it's up to you how you choose to broaden your perspective and passions.
Experience Campustown.
Iconic in appearance and constantly buzzing with energy, Campustown is dedicated to student life. It's where you study, eat, play, and live.
Student Feature: Kennedy
When Kennedy saw a need on campus for help in navigating the journey to medical school, she created Mentors in Medicine. This student organization connects first-year pre-med students to mentoring, volunteering, and research opportunities at UIUC.
Watch Video

1,000+ registered student organizations

Grow through experience.
There's a community for everyone at UIUC, and it's easy to get involved. With so many student groups to choose from, it's just a matter of finding the right place for you. Our annual Quad Day is a great first chance to explore your options.

Get Involved

Illini 4000
Illini 4000 is a student-run, non-profit organization that raises money and awareness for cancer research by biking across the United States.
Read More
Paint your body orange and blue.
Students are filled with school spirit as they root the Fighting Illini on to victory. Illini Pride, our student cheering section, is the largest group on campus and knows just how to set the atmosphere for big games. I-L-L and I-N-I!
Student Feature: Sydney & Chase
Twin football players Sydney and Chase talk training and competing at a national level and how football at UIUC has changed their lives, teaching them the power of leadership, determination, and fighting through adversity.
Watch Video

21 Big Ten, Division I sports teams

Find what entertains you.
Krannert is a nationally renowned performing arts venue, and State Farm Center brings in huge names. Our local scene is also exciting, with festivals galore related to music, art, and films.
Work it out with Campus Rec.
We offer approximately 500,000 square feet of indoor and 75 acres of outdoor rec space for you to engage in recreation and wellness opportunities. Work out solo, play intramurals, take healthy cooking classes—whatever gets you motivated!
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
