https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Transfer/handbook
Transfer Handbook, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Transfer Handbook
If you want to transfer to UIUC, follow the required and recommended course sequences listed in our handbook. Information is subject to change and doesn’t constitute a contract between you and UIUC.
Using the Handbook
You must select a major on your application for admission. In addition, you may also list a second-choice major. It's important to consult the Transfer Handbook when considering your transfer options to ensure you meet specific course and GPA requirements. Select the college you want to transfer into, then find the program you’re interested in. For most majors, our handbook will provide a recommended course sequence, with transfer prerequisite requirements listed in red italics. Compare the recommended courses against your potential transfer credits.
Handbook Contents
*In compliance with Title II of the Higher Education Act, Section 207 (f) (2), the university annually publishes an Institutional Report Card. This Institutional Report Card contains data regarding the pass rate of teacher education program completers on assessments required by the state for teacher licensure or certification, the statewide pass rate on those assessments, and other basic information on teacher preparation programs. Written copies of the report may be obtained by contacting the Council on Teacher Education at 217-333-2804. You can also view the report online.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
