https://admissions.illinois.edu/Home/myillini-apply
Apply, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Are you ready to apply to UIUC? See which of our applications are currently open and get started!
First-year applicants applying to enter college in fall 2022 can apply to UIUC in one of three different ways: through myIllini, Coalition, or the Common App. We don't give preference based on application type.
Our 2022 first-year application is now closed. Submit a petition through myIllini to explain why you're applying after the deadline.
Our UIUC application can be accessed through myIllini, our student portal.
The myIllini application is now closed.
The Coalition platform provides a centralized toolkit for you to organize, build, and refine your applications for numerous institutions.
The Coalition Application is now closed.
The Common App platform allows you to navigate your entire college application journey, including applying to multiple institutions, in one place.
The Common App is now closed.
Transfer applicants applying for spring 2022 or summer/fall 2022 admission can apply to UIUC through myIllini, our student portal.
Our 2022 transfer application is now closed. Submit a petition through myIllini to explain why you're applying after the deadline.
Parkland Pathway applicants applying to enter college in fall 2022 can apply to the program through myIllini, our student portal.
Our 2022 Parkland Pathway application is now closed. Submit a petition through myIllini to explain why you're applying after the deadline.
The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available. This report includes statistics from the previous three years concerning reported crime that occurred on campus, in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign campus and statistics for fires in on-campus student housing. The report also includes institutional policies concerning campus security and other safety information along with fire safety policies and procedures. You may obtain a hard copy of this report by contacting the Division of Public Safety or by accessing the following website: police.illinois.edu/clery.
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
