https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Academics/research
Research, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Research
Whether we’re engineering photosynthesis to increase crop production and end hunger worldwide or developing innovative approaches to fight COVID-19, life-changing work is being done across all disciplines at UIUC.

#1 in university research fundingfrom the National Science Foundation

Show us your best stuff.
Anyone can research, no matter the major. We devote a whole week to celebrating our students and the work they’re doing. The biggest highlight? Our annual Undergraduate Research Week!
Work with renowned faculty in state-of-the-art labs.
One of the best research institutions out there, UIUC has over 100 centers and institutes devoted to its cause. These modern facilities are the standard for doing high-level research with professors who are experts in their fields.
Meet the real world at Research Park.
Home to more than 120 Fortune 500 and start-up companies, Research Park is nationally recognized for its role in aiding entrepreneurship and innovation. It's home to EnterpriseWorks, an incubator facility that helps launch new tech companies. Research Park also employs over 800 student interns.
Start your own business.
Opportunities for entrepreneurship exist across all majors at UIUC. For example, our iVenture Accelerator supports student entrepreneurs with knowledge, funding, and access to world-class resources and alumni, while our yearly Cozad New Venture Competition invites teams to create a venture around a topic of their choice for a chance to win funding and prizes valued over $250,000.
Student Feature: Mona
Mona wanted to create a space where clothes can be recirculated instead of wasted. After being accepted into iVenture Accelerator, a program that supports top student startups at UIUC, Mona has turned her upcycling idea into a reality.
Watch Video
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
