https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Admitted/welcome
Welcome to the Family, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Welcome to the Family
Experience UIUC & Start Building Your Community!
Watch UIUC on The College Tour
Get inspired for fall by checking out our brand-new episode on Amazon Prime's The College Tour! You'll experience campus and The Power of I through the eyes of 11 current Illini.
The College Tour: Student Segments
Short on time? Watch individual segments from the show instead.
Virtual Q&As
Hosted by admissions counselors and current students, our virtual Q&As are an opportunity for you to ask any and all questions you have about your transition to UIUC.
Sign Up Now
Our New Student Programs office is also offering virtual experiences for new students this summer. Explore their options, too!
Instagram Takeovers
Illini are sharing their lives and answering your questions on our channel!
Virtual Backgrounds
I-L-L, I-N-I: Get into the school spirit with iconic campus shots!
For Zoom  For Phone
Advice for New Illini
Mentorship in College: All That It Can Offer You
Taylor talks about mentorship at UIUC and how it can ease your college transition.
Read More about being natural
An Introvert's Guide to Making Friends
What's the best way to make friends this fall? Abby is sharing her best tips with you!
Read More on making friends
The Most Fun Classes to Take at UIUC
Badminton, anyone? Noah shares some of the best classes he's taken on campus.
Read More about fun classes
Student Group Spotlights
Illini 4000
Illini 4000 bikes across the country each summer to promote cancer awareness.
Read More about Surabhi and Siddhi
Illini Esports
Focusing on 10 games, Illini Esports brings together casual and competitive gamers.
Read More about Illini esports
Illini Pride
Illini Pride gathers all sports lovers together to cheer for our Big Ten, Division I teams.
Read More about Fabian
Find your perfect fit
Ranging from academic to cultural to philanthropic, over 1,800 student groups exist on campus. It's time to discover which ones fit your interests!
Explore Student Groups
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
