https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Transfer/review
Transfer Application Review, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
How We Review Transfer Applicants
Whether we look at high school info or university transcripts depends on the number of college credit hours you have.
We evaluate your transcripts (and, in some cases, ACT or SAT scores).
We require official transcripts from each college or university you’ve attended, along with official high school transcripts or high school equivalency exam results to verify graduation. If you're applying with more than 30 graded transferable college credit hours, we'll base our review on your college-level coursework. If you're applying with fewer than 30 graded hours, we'll review your high school and college-level coursework; we'll also use your ACT and/or SAT scores if you choose to submit them.
We look at your prerequisite coursework.
Most of our transfer programs require you to complete certain courses before you enroll. In our review, we’ll confirm that you’ve taken the classes necessary for the program you’re applying to. Our Transfer Handbook lists all such requirements by programs of study.
Review Handbook
We consider our restrictions.
If the number of qualified applicants to a major exceeds space availability, we’ll admit those who are best qualified. Preference may be given to students who have completed all required and recommended courses and have grades comparable to the quality of the applicant pool. Based on the number of transferable hours you've earned, some programs may be closed.
See Available Majors
We assess your essay(s).
Not only do we consider your strength of writing, but we also look at how you tie your academic interest to your desired major and how you showcase that passion in your life. If you apply to the Division of General Studies, we look at how you explain your varied interests and need for exploration.
View Essays
We listen to your story.
Take advantage of your opportunity to explain any unique circumstances that may demonstrate qualities or skills you have that can help you succeed. If you're missing prerequisite coursework, you may explain why. Additionally, if you have one semester or course in which your performance doesn't match the rest of your semesters or courses, you may want to explain the circumstances.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
