https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Freshman/essays
First-Year Application Writing Prompts, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Writing Prompts for First-Year Applicants
Following are our writing prompts for first-year students applying for fall 2022 admission.
Short Answers
You'll answer two to three short-answer prompts as part of your application. The questions you'll answer will depend on whether you're applying to a major or to our undeclared program, and if you've selected a second choice. Each short-answer response should be no more than 150 words.
If You're Applying to a Major:
If You're Applying to Our Undeclared Program in the Division of General Studies:
If You've Selected a Second-Choice Major (Including Undeclared):
Essay
You'll also answer one essay prompt as part of your application. Your options will depend on which application you use to apply. Essays can be anywhere from 250 to 650 words total.
If You're Applying Through myIllini:
Select and answer one prompt of your choice from the following list:
If You're Applying Through Coalition:
Select and answer the Coalition prompt of your choice. You can view the full list on their website.
If You're Applying Through the Common App:
Select and answer the Common App prompt of your choice. You can view the full list on their website.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
