https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/Academics/classes
Classes, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Every course you take at UIUC has the potential to enhance your perspective and renew your purpose. You may even discover a career path you never expected!
In Companion Animal Management, students learn how to best care for animals commonly kept as pets. This includes Carmen and Milo, two of the class's most frequent guests.
Watch Video
Chase prefers working outside to studying in a classroom. UIUC gave him the space to not only learn about his major but also apply what he learned in a hands-on environment.
Watch Video
Learning is about opportunity, which is why opportunities are unlimited at UIUC. You can study almost anything here, and you’ll do so in a variety of ways—from small group discussions and large lectures to real-world experiences in your field.
View Classes
Fostering new ways of thinking, your classes will be a constant source of inspiration during your time on campus. Here are just a few examples.
NRES 340, which teaches how social science research methods can be applied appropriately or inappropriately, allowed its most recent class the chance to learn how to detect misinformation surrounding COVID-19.
A 12-day domestic tour of Recreation, Sport, and Tourism-related destinations provides students in this class the opportunity to meet professionals in their field and explore potential career options.
From carving cuneiform symbols into clay to translating ancient texts, LING 404 allows students to strengthen their linguistic and problem-solving skills through interaction with Hittite and other non-Western languages.
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
