https://admissions.illinois.edu/FAQ/applicant-freshman
First-Year Applicant FAQ, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
First-Year Applicant FAQ
General Application
How do I apply?
First-year applicants can choose to apply to UIUC in one of three ways: myIllini, Coalition, or Common App. We don't give preference based on your application type. Only one first-year application is permitted per applicant, and the first submitted application is considered official.
When do I apply?
Application deadlines can be found on our dates page.
What’s the priority admission filing period?
The priority admission filing period is explained on our dates page.
Do you accept letters of recommendation or other additional materials?
No, we don’t accept letter of recommendation or other unsolicited materials. An audition, portfolio, or interview may be required for Fine and Applied Arts applicants. See our application process for more details.
How does my application fee affect my application status?
We won’t consider your application complete and won’t process it until we receive an application fee or an authorized fee waiver submitted by your high school counselor. If you submit the fee when you submit your application, we strongly encourage you to pay by credit card. If you choose to pay later, you can pay by credit card through your status page in myIllini.
Can I add activities or honors to my application after I submit it?
No, we won't consider additional activities or honors once the application is submitted.
What percentage of undergraduates are not from Illinois?
Approximately 26% of our undergraduates are not from Illinois. These students are evaluated against the same criteria used for in-state students.
I'm an international applicant. Is there a separate application for me?
No, there is not a separate application or process for international applicants.
I’m currently an international student on visa. However, I’ll have lawful permanent resident status at the beginning of the term. What will my residency be listed as on the application?
Until you receive your green card, we'll consider you an international applicant. When you receive your green card, send us a copy, and we’ll change your status within our system. Read more about residency.
As an international student, do I need to submit financial verification papers with my application?
No, we’ll only request financial documents and official transcripts if you’re admitted to the university and choose to attend.
Self-Reported Courses
What does it mean to self-report my courses?
If you apply through myIllini or Coalition, you’ll be asked to enter your courses and grades for years 9 to 11 as they appear on your official high school transcript. You’ll also be asked to enter your courses in progress for year 12. If you apply through Common App, we'll email you with instructions on how to self-report your courses after you submit the application. If you don't have a myIllini account yet, wait until you receive our instructions.
How do I enter my courses and grades?
You must have your high school transcript with you when self-reporting your courses and grades, entering all information exactly as it appears on your document. All semester, trimester, or quarter grades must be listed. Don’t average grades.
If you’re admitted and plan to enroll, your final, official transcript must match the information you self-reported. If it doesn’t, your admission offer will be rescinded.
Can I make changes to my self-reported courses once they’ve been submitted?
If you have an update to your senior year schedule or find an error after submitting your application, complete our Course Change Form in myIllini.
When do I submit my final transcripts?
If you’re admitted and decide to enroll at UIUC, you’ll be required to submit final, official high school transcripts once you graduate. Don’t send official transcripts at the time of application or after mid-year grades are received.
Do I need to include 9th grade if it was completed at a junior high or middle school?
Yes, all courses taken in 9th grade must be reported regardless of where they were taken.
Do I need to include advanced courses and grades from 7th and 8th grade?
Advanced courses taken in 7th and 8th grade in mathematics or a language other than English may count toward your subject pattern requirement.
myIllini: Select "Pre-High School" in the year field.
Coalition: Enter them as "9th or earlier" and click the box noting you took the class in 6th, 7th, or 8th grade for high school credit.
Common App: You will self-report your courses and grades through myIllini, using a link we send you after submitting your application.
Am I able to include college courses or dual credit courses I have taken while in high school?
Yes, you have the opportunity to self-report any college courses or dual credit courses you’ve taken prior to enrolling at UIUC.
I attended multiple high schools. How do I list my grades?
How do I enter my external exam results (O-Levels, Indian Standard X exams, I/GCSE, HKDSE, etc.)?
You must have your external exam results with you when self-reporting your scores, entering all information as it appears on your document. If you're admitted and plan to enroll, your final, official exam results must match the information you reported. If they don't, your admission offer will be rescinded.
Create a high school record for the school or schools you attended while preparing for the exam. You don't need to create high school records for the years in which exams weren't taken; those courses and grades don't need to be reported.
myIllini: In the Education section, answer "Yes" to the education system question of "Are you or have you been enrolled in an educational system which includes externally administered exams?"
In the Courses sections, check the box for "I only have international exam results during this period."
In the Other Academic Information section, enter all external exams you've taken and the scores you've received. Also enter all exams you plan to take and check the radio button for "Results Not Received Yet."
Examples: India, Singapore, Malaysia
Coalition: In the High School Information section, check the box stating "This is an exam-based school." Then answer the two questions below.
In the 9-11 Grade Coursework section, enter all external exams you've taken and the scores you've received for the appropriate years.
In the 12 Grade Coursework section, enter the exams you plan to take and select "In Progress" or "Not Started."
Example: India
Common App: You will self-report your courses and grades through myIllini, using a link we send you after submitting your application.
What should I do if my high school lists my grades numerically?
Common App: You will self-report your courses and grades through myIllini, using a link we send you after submitting your application.
If your transcript includes a numerical to letter grading scale:
If your transcript doesn’t include a numerical to letter grading scale:
What should I do if my high school doesn’t follow an A-F or a numerical grading scale?
Select "Other" as your type of grading scale and enter a grading scale/conversion, even if one does not appear on your transcript. Enter your grades exactly as they appear on your transcript.
My high school follows a block schedule. How do I report this?
Report your courses as year-long. It's true that the courses are only a semester long, but they're worth a year of work.
myIllini: Select "Yes" to the block scheduling question on the Education page of the application.
Coalition: Check the box indicating your school using block scheduling on the Coursework page.
Common App: You will self-report your courses and grades through myIllini, using a link we send you after submitting your application.
What if I’ve taken a high school equivalency exam (ex. GED) or don’t plan on earning a high school diploma?
If you took a high school equivalency exam and completed some high school coursework, include all completed high school coursework in the Courses section. You’ll need to send a copy of your high school equivalency exam to our office.
If you took a high school equivalency exam and didn’t complete any high school coursework, contact our office to explain your situation and receive more details. You’ll need to send a copy of your high school equivalency exam to our office.
Test-Optional
Is the ACT or SAT optional for all first-year applicants?
Yes, ACT/SAT scores are optional for all first-year applicants, including international students, homeschooled students, and recruited student-athletes. Recruited student-athletes are still required to satisfy all initial eligibility requirements set forth by the NCAA Eligibility Center.
How do I decide if I should report ACT/SAT scores?
We encourage you to report your scores if you feel they accurately represent your ability.
Can I change my test-optional selection after I've submitted the application?
No, you will not be able to change your test-optional selection after you've submitted the application.
How do I let UIUC know if I will be reporting my ACT/SAT scores?
If you choose to report your scores, you will be asked to self-report them on the application. You may also have official scores sent directly.
I’ve already sent my official ACT/SAT to UIUC but would like to be reviewed without my scores. Will you use my previously sent official scores?
Any scores that were previously sent will not be added to your application file.
Are all majors at UIUC test-optional?
Yes, ACT/SAT scores are not required to apply to any major.
Do I need to prove English proficiency?
If you report ACT/SAT scores and have not completed at least three full years of secondary education in an approved country where English is the official language,* you are strongly encouraged to submit TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test scores regardless of citizenship or residency.
If you do not report ACT/SAT scores and have not completed at least three full years of secondary education in an approved country where English is the official language,* you are required to submit TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test scores regardless of citizenship or residency.
Test scores that will be used to fulfill the English proficiency requirement must be taken within two years of the applicant’s date of enrollment in the university. The Duolingo English Test, the TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition, and the IELTS Indicator will be accepted for fall 2022, but a decision has not been made for future terms.
*Approved countries include Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Canada (excluding Quebec), the Cayman Islands, Dominica, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Saint Kitts, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom, and the United States (excluding Puerto Rico).
How will my application be reviewed if I do not report ACT/SAT scores?
We will use a holistic review of your admissions application with or without an ACT or SAT.
If I do not report ACT/SAT scores, will I be considered for merit-based scholarships and honors programs?
Test scores are not required to be considered for merit-based scholarships or honors programs. If you do not submit test scores for consideration in the review process, you are not able to add them later for scholarship or honors review.
If I do not report ACT/SAT scores, can I send them later for course placement or proficiency?
No, if you do not report ACT/SAT scores with the application, we will not accept them later for any enrollment purposes, including course placement or proficiency.
If Reporting Test Scores
Should I take the ACT or the SAT?
We accept both exams, and no preference is given to either.
Do you accept the SAT Subject Tests?
No, the SAT Subject Tests aren't part of our review process and won't be loaded with your application.
What test scores do I need to be admitted?
You don't need a set score to be admitted. Admission decisions are based on a variety of factors. Read more on how we review.
Do official scores need to be sent to complete my application?
No, we'll review your application based on the test scores you report (ACT, SAT, TOEFL iBT, IELTS, Duolingo English Test). If you enroll at UIUC, you'll be required to submit official scores for all scores you reported.
If self-reported test scores can be used to review my application, should I still have my scores sent when I take an exam?
Yes, since you can send your scores to four schools for free when you take a test, take advantage of that now.  If you are admitted and accept the offer, you'll have to pay to send them later. 
I took multiple exams. Which scores should I report on the application?
Report the highest SAT total or ACT composite score you earned, along with the highest sub-scores you earned in each category, regardless of test date. Don’t recalculate a new total or composite.
I had my official scores sent to UIUC already. Do I still need to self-report them on the application?
Yes, you still need to complete the self-reported test score section of the application.
Do I need to wait to apply until I have all of my scores?
If you have scores from a previous test, report those when you apply. If you receive higher scores before a decision is made on your application, you can have those sent or submit the Test Score Change Form to add them to your application. If you don't have any scores yet, you can still submit your application by listing your future test date on the application. However, your application will remain incomplete until we either receive official scores or you submit the Test Score Change Form in myIllini with scores you've earned.
I submitted my application but then received higher test scores. I don't have a final decision yet. How do I update my application with the new scores?
You may have the official scores sent to our office, or you may submit the Test Score Change Form found in myIllini.
Second-Choice Major
Should I select a second-choice major within the application?
Yes, we strongly recommend it, especially if you're applying into one of our more competitive programs such as Engineering or Business. If you're not admissible to your first choice, you'll be reviewed for your second choice. If you're not admissible to either one, you'll be considered for all other avenues of admission. If you're admitted into your second choice or another program, you're considered wait listed for your first choice. This means that if space later opens up, we'll consider you again.
What happens if I don't select a second-choice major?
If you don't select a second choice, you'll only be considered for your first choice. This option is only appropriate if you're certain you won't attend UIUC unless you're admitted to your first choice. If you don't select a second choice and you're not competitive for your first choice, you'll be wait listed or denied. You won't be considered for any other avenue of admission.
Will selecting a second-choice major disadvantage me from my first choice?
No, your application will receive a thorough review for your first-choice major. If you're not competitive within that pool, you'll then be reviewed for your second-choice major and all other avenues of admission.
Are all majors available as a second choice?
No, not all majors are available due to space constraints. Majors unavailable as a second choice include Computer Engineering, Computer Science (including all Computer Science + X majors), Mechanical Engineering, Information Sciences, and all Music majors except Music BA, which doesn't require an audition.
How should I go about selecting my second-choice major?
Most likely, you'll want to select a second choice that's similar to your first-choice major based on your interests. We suggest keeping an open mind in selecting a second choice and encourage you to research our majors by interest area. You may find majors in other colleges on campus that fit your interests. If you select a specific major as your second choice, you should be interested in pursuing a degree in that field.  If you're unsure of a specific major, you can choose our Undeclared program in the Division of General Studies (DGS) as your second choice.
I applied to the Undeclared program in DGS. Do I still need to list a second choice?
If there's a major you're considering, you should list it as your second choice. If you're exploring, there's no need to list a second-choice major.
Is it possible to receive admission offers for both my first and second choice?
No. If you're eligible, you'll only be admitted into one of the majors. If you want to declare a double major, you'll need to discuss that with your academic advisor once on campus.
Are there additional short answer questions if I select a second-choice major?
Yes, we want to know why you are interested in your second-choice major as well.
Can I add a second-choice major or change it after submitting my application?
Yes, you can perform either task through the Program Change Form, which can be found on your status page in myIllini. Once decisions are released, it's no longer possible to add a second-choice major or change an existing one.
Will I receive equal consideration for my second-choice major along with those applicants who chose it as their first choice?
Preference will be given to those applicants who listed the major as their first choice, but you'll be given equal consideration with all other applicants who chose the major as a second choice.
Due to space limitations, Illinois residents will be given preference for admission into second-choice majors. Historically, non-Illinois residents who have listed the Undeclared program in the Division of General Studies as their second choice haven't been admitted to that program due to space constraints.
Homeschooled
Does UIUC admit homeschooled graduates?
Yes, we encourage you to apply to the university.
Is the university interested in having homeschoolers apply?
We’re very interested in having talented, well-qualified applicants from a variety of settings. Your academic experiences help bring diversity to our campus.
How many homeschoolers have you admitted?
Approximately 60 to 70 homeschooled students are admitted each year. We don’t set a limit on how many can be admitted. The most qualified students in our applicant pool will be selected for admission.
What are your admission requirements for homeschooled applicants?
You’re reviewed on an individual basis, similar to all other first-year applicants. See our application process for more information.
Do you require a high school equivalency exam (ex. GED)?
The Admissions Review Committee and the Office of Admissions reviews each application. If you’re eligible to take a high school equivalency exam, we require you to provide us with the results. If you’re not eligible to take a high school equivalency exam, we continue to look very closely at your other application requirements. The strength of your test scores (if provided), type of homeschool experience, and application essays all go into making this decision.
Will you accept a letter of recommendation from a parent if they are my primary instructor?
No, we don’t accept letters of recommendation. We’ll remove any unsolicited materials, including letters of recommendation, from your file before reviewing your application.
What can I do to strengthen my high school preparation?
You can augment your homeschool experience with some more traditional schooling experiences, such as community or local college coursework or selected courses at a local high school. Taking Advanced Placement exams can confirm that you’re prepared and may also result in earning college credit.
Can I compete successfully for academic scholarships?
All of our applicants, including homeschooled students, will automatically be considered for any merit-based scholarships. We'll consider your curriculum and grades at your homeschool and any college coursework you may have taken prior to enrollment. We'll also consider your test scores, involvement, awards, and essay.
Review & Notification
Do you consider the competitiveness of my high school?
We understand that every school offers different curricula. For this reason, we expect you to take advantage of the most challenging courses available at your particular school, earning strong grades in your courses. We also consider your test scores (if provided), essays, and extracurricular involvement when making our final admissions decision.
Once I submit my application, how soon will I be notified, and what decisions might I receive?
Notification dates are listed on our dates page. You can view our different decisions and what they mean on our decisions page.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
