https://admissions.illinois.edu/Invest/financial-aid
Financial Aid, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Financial Aid
How to Apply
You can apply for financial aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), which is available regardless of financial need. Using the FAFSA results, our Office of Student Financial Aid will prepare a Financial Aid Notification for you detailing the total amount of financial aid you’ll receive.
Complete FAFSA
If you're an Illinois resident who isn't otherwise eligible for federal financial aid, you can submit the Alternative Application for Illinois Financial Aid.
Types of Aid
We assist you in paying for your UIUC expenses in many ways:
Hop, Step, & Jump
Praesent non sem ligula. Mauris imperdiet dui eu sollicitudin aliquam. Nullam aliquam eget nisi eget consectetur.
Read Story
A Game-Changing Scholarship
Julissa’s journey at UIUC was made possible by a single transformative opportunity.
Read Story
Four Years. Free Tuition.
If you’re an Illinois resident whose family makes $67,100 or less, you may be eligible for the Illinois Commitment financial aid package, which covers the cost of tuition and campus fees.
Learn More

30% of incoming students received Illinois Commitment in 2020-2021

Estimating Your Aid
Our net price calculator can give you a better idea of how much college may cost you after receiving financial aid. This estimate is based on full-time enrollment and doesn't include merit-based or outside scholarships.
Estimate Your Aid
How We Compare
UIUC strives to keep costs affordable. Not only have merit and need-based aid increased in recent years, but our students also take out fewer loans and graduate with less debt than the national average.
Institutional Scholarships Paid to Undergraduates
Percent of Graduates Who Borrowed a Student Loan
National Graduates$28,950 average loan debt(per borrower)
State of Illinois Graduates$29,666 average loan debt(per borrower)
UIUC Graduates$22,830 average loan debt(per borrower)
International Students
No need-based financial aid is available to international undergraduates, and F-1 visas allow very limited opportunities for students to work at the university. For this reason, you must have sufficient funds for your entire period of study. However, limited scholarships and loans exist through International Student and Scholar Services.
View Opportunities
Student Feature: Arnoldo
After receiving a full ride to UIUC, Arnoldo decided to pay it forward by helping to implement a brand-new scholarship on campus. He hopes it will give people from all backgrounds the opportunity to attend UIUC.
Watch Video
More Info
The Office of Student Financial Aid has details on all things financial aid.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
