https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Transfer/process
Transfer Application Process, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
How to Apply as a Transfer Applicant
Apply Now
1. Get prepared.
Before applying as a transfer student, you'll want to learn our course and GPA requirements, which of your classes will transfer, whether your intended major is considering applicants, and more. You can find links to all of these resources on our transfer application preparation page.
How to Transfer to UIUC: A Complete Guide
We’ve created a guide to help you navigate our transfer application process. We hope it helps as you begin your planning!
Read Guide
2. Complete your application.
You'll choose a major, write an essay, and list your extracurriculars, work experience, honors, and awards. Note that we'll also use your application to determine admission into campus honors programs and award merit-based scholarships.
3. Pay the application fee.
When you submit your application, you'll pay a nonrefundable fee by credit card. If you’re a domestic student at the University of Illinois at Chicago or Springfield, you don’t need to submit a fee.
4. Send us your transcripts.
We need official transcripts from all colleges or universities you've attended. We also need a final, official transcript from your high school or your high school equivalency exam results to confirm you’ve graduated. When you apply, ask that these institutions send your official transcripts directly to our office.
5. Submit your ACT/SAT test scores (optional).
If you have fewer than 30 graded transferable semester hours of college coursework when you apply, you can choose to submit official ACT or SAT scores if you feel they will add value to your application. Scores must be sent directly from the testing agency and dated within five years of your enrollment at UIUC.
6. Prove your English proficiency.
You must meet one of our listed conditions to satisfy our minimum English proficiency requirement. In many cases, the standards needed to gain admission will be much higher, so it’s worth submitting all test scores showing a high level of English competency. Test scores must be dated within two years of your enrollment at UIUC.
7. See if you have further application requirements.
Depending on your background or the major you're applying to, you may have just a few more things to do.
International Applicants
You'll need to follow these additional steps during the application process.
Art + Design Applicants
You also need to submit a portfolio. More information is available through the School of Art and Design or by calling 217-333-6632.
Dance Applicants
You also need to complete an audition. More information is available through the Department of Dance or by calling 217-333-1010.
Music Applicants
You also need to complete a music application and audition or interview. More information is available through the School of Music or by calling 217-244-7899.
Theatre Applicants
You also need to interview and complete an audition or portfolio review. More information is available through the Department of Theatre or by calling 217-333-2371.
8. Check your status.
Once you’ve submitted your application, check its status by clicking on your application in myIllini. Make sure your personal information is correct and you report any errors to us. If you need to make a change, submit the necessary Change Request Form in myIllini.
Important Dates
Learn when our spring and fall transfer applications are available and when you'll be notified of a decision.
View dates
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
