https://admissions.illinois.edu/covid19
COVID-19 &amp; Our Admissions Process, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
We're here to help guide you through the admissions process during this time. You can monitor this page for admissions-related updates as they become available.
The Illini family is privileged to include some of the world’s leading minds on COVID-19 safety, testing, and procedures. Read about the many measures that have been put into place to maximize everyone's safety.
Our building, the Office of Admissions and Records, is currently closed to the public. However, we're still working and available to answer all of your admissions questions! Feel free to email us any time or call us at 217-333-0302 Mondays through Fridays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CST.
The university is excited to be planning for an on-campus, residential experience in the fall of 2021. The vast majority of our courses will be taught face-to-face, while still observing COVID-19 safety protocols. Additionally, we are leveraging instructional innovations implemented over the past year to enhance academic opportunities for all UIUC students.
Recently, it was announced that all students who are able to do so will be required to be fully vaccinated (defined as 14 days after the final dose) with a university-accepted vaccine before beginning the fall semester if they plan to be on campus with no additional health and safety obligations.
Individuals who are not able to be vaccinated and/or who have not had their record submitted and verified will be required to participate in the COVID-19 testing program and to continue wearing a face covering.
If you are not able to access one of the university-accepted vaccines, you will be able to receive an accepted vaccine upon your arrival to campus. For more details, visit our main campus website.
To ensure the health and safety of our campus community, we ask that students refrain from visiting us in person at this time. We're taking many measures to keep our students safe and help reduce the number of possible exposures. Therefore, any campus visitors won't have physical access to buildings, faculty, or staff. We appreciate your patience and understanding during this time, and we look forward to hosting you in person once it's safe to do so!
In the meantime, you can learn more about us and our campus through our virtual visit options. These include a variety of virtual tours, admissions information sessions and one-on-one meetings, meetings with academic programs, glimpses into the student experience, and more.
We will not require students applying for admission in the 2022-23 and 2023-24 academic years to submit SAT or ACT test results since the COVID-19 pandemic has limited their opportunities to take the exams. A TOEFL or IELTS score may be required. Review our first-year applicant FAQ for more details.
Students with fewer than 30 graded and transferable hours of college credit applying for admission in the spring 2022 semester and 2022-23 and 2023-24 academic years will not be required to submit SAT or ACT test results since the COVID-19 pandemic has limited their opportunities to take the exams. A TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test score may be required to satisfy the English language proficiency requirement. The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition, IELTS Indicator, and the Duolingo English Test will be accepted for spring and fall 2022, but a decision has not been made for future terms.
We'll rely on the expertise of the high school or previous college when determining successful completion of academic credit and if high school graduation requirements have been met. Applicants won't be penalized for system process changes at their school.
Transferable college coursework completed during the spring, summer, and fall 2020 and spring 2021 terms that is articulated to UIUC courses fulfilling major, minor, or general education requirements and graded using a pass/fail or credit/no-credit-type grading system will be applied to degree requirements if a pass or credit-type grade is earned.
With the cancellation of CBSE and ISCE exams, we will be accepting internal assessments and other government-sanctioned evaluation methods for exam results. The deadline to submit Year XII results is September 17th.
Due to ongoing school closures, we are temporarily accepting electronic Year X and XII results submitted through DigiLocker as official if you are unable to have your results mailed. To submit your results, you or your high school counselor may request that your exam results be sent directly from the examination board through DigiLocker to your high school counselor's email. They will then need to forward the results, along with your UIN, to international-admissions@illinois.edu. If the results have not been digitally certified by Digilocker, Digilocker's original email is required and must be forwarded from your counselor as well.
Final official transcripts can be mailed directly to us from the school or exam board or sent electronically via one of our vendors. Please note that we do not accept transcripts via email from international institutions. If your counselor is sending your transcripts through an electronic vendor, please have them list the documents as "transcripts" (when available) rather than "other." We accept transcripts from the following vendors:
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to email us or call us at +1 217-333-0302.
Once you accept your offer of admission, you will need to submit your I-20 application through your Admitted Checklist, found in myIlini.
If you were issued an I-20 for Fall 2020 or Spring 2021, we will defer the program start date on your existing I-20 to Fall 2021. Updated I-20s will be emailed to your illinois.edu email address by mid-March. If you haven’t received an updated I-20 by March 15, or if you did not receive an I-20 for Fall 2020 or Spring 2021 but will need one for Fall 2021, contact our office.
Once you accept your offer of admission, you will need to submit your I-20 application through your Admitted Checklist, found in myIlini. If you were a previous delayed admit, we will need to issue a new I-20, which will require a new SEVIS fee. You must also reach out to your previous institution to have your record retrieved.
We will need to await guidance from SEVP as to the status of your I-20. Please be aware that we may not receive such guidance until late July.
If you're unable to travel to campus for Fall 2021, don't worry, you have options!
You can register to take online courses in the fall. During your New Student Registration appointment, you will work with an advisor to schedule these courses. Please note, though, that we cannot guarantee you will have a full-time schedule.
UIUC is offering an Academic Bridge program at Zhejiang University in China. Students will remain registered and enrolled as UIUC students and will still have access to UIUC resources to actively support them throughout the Fall 2021 semester. You can learn more on our Illinois International website.
You can also request to delay the start of your attendance at UIUC for up to two semesters. If your admission has already been delayed up to two semesters, we will not be able to approve further requests unless your U.S. military orders have been extended. You will need to re-apply for the 2022 terms.
The delayed admission request form can be found in myIllini. If you're unsure whether this is the right path for you right now, accept your offer of admission by May 1 to secure a place in our class. Then, if you find you're unable to obtain a visa on time, no Academic Bridge programs are available, or there are not enough online courses for your major, you will be able to request a delay of admission later this summer. Requests must be submitted no later than August 1.
Last Updated: August 9, 2021
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
