https://admissions.illinois.edu/Discover/history
History & Mission, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
History & Mission
Our university was founded with the goals of true impact and innovation for all people in mind, and its community of scholars has been changing lives ever since. Backed by this rich legacy, you too will harness your power as an Illini.

EST. 1867
Land-Grant Mission
UIUC began with the working class in mind. Thanks to the Morrill Acts of 1862 and 1890, the university was designated as a land-grant institution. This means that the government reserved land for the creation of a university that should aim to provide agricultural, scientific, military, and technical education to the people of the state of Illinois, no matter their background or socioeconomic level.
"I have the land-grant mission in my blood. I am a product of it. It is what brought me into higher education, from a sharecropping family in Georgia. We need to find ways to make that story possible for everyone … "
Chancellor Robert J. Jones, 2016
Global Impact
UIUC is more than just a university. It is a hub of research and innovation. It is a diverse and inclusive community of people who are already making a global impact. It is a creative cultural microcosm where the arts flourish along with the sciences. It is everything an academic institution ought to be and more. Our academic tradition and continued commitment to making the world a better place have changed lives for the better.
More About Us
Explore the history and mission of UIUC further.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
