https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/undocumented
Undocumented Applicants, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
Resources for Undocumented Students
This page provides information and resources for undocumented students and their families regarding enrollment at UIUC and eligibility for in-state tuition.
Citizenship & Residency
All students are welcome to apply to UIUC regardless of citizenship or residency status. At UIUC, an undocumented student's legal status does not impact their admission decision. However, tuition rates differ for in-state and out-of-state residents. Some non-citizens, including undocumented students, may be eligible for in-state tuition, although they do not qualify for Illinois Commitment. Review our residency information for more information about eligibility.
How to Apply for Undergraduate Admissions
In order to apply for admission, you must complete an application. Within the application, you'll be prompted with a series of questions regarding your current residency/citizenship. You should answer the questions to the best of your ability, using the guide below for reference.
Step 1
In the "Personal Information" section, you're asked to provide a Social Security Number. You may either leave this blank or enter a DACA-assigned Social Security Work Number.
A Social Security Number is required for students who apply for federal financial aid. Please note that undocumented students are not encouraged to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) in the state of Illinois. If you're an Illinois resident, we encourage you to submit the Alternative Application for Illinois Financial Aid instead.
Step 2 (myIllini)
In the "Contact Information" section, you're asked a series of questions regarding your citizenship/residency status.
Q. Are you a U.S. citizen? A. No
Q. Do you currently have or plan to have a valid passport from another country prior to enrollment and will you be in need of a student visa? A. No

Q. Select the statement that applies to you: A.  I have never applied for a permanent resident card (Green Card), nor possess one.
Q. What best describes your current status? A.  Other and my family residence is in the United States
Q. Do you reside with your parents while attending a public or private high school in Illinois? A. Yes
Q. Did you or will you graduate from a public or private high school in Illinois? A. Yes
Q. Did you or will you attend school in Illinois for at least 3 years as of the date you graduated from high school or received the equivalent of a high school diploma? A. Yes
Q. If you're not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States, will you provide the University of Illinois with an affidavit stating that you will file an application to become a permanent resident of the United States at your earliest opportunity? A. Yes
Step 2 (Common App)
In the "Questions" section, you're asked to select your citizenship/residency status.
You may select "DACA, Undocumented, Deferred Enforced Departure, or Temporary Protected Status".
These questions will appear in the "Residency" section of the Common Application.
Step 3
Once you've applied and your eligibility for in-state tuition has been reviewed, you may be asked to submit a signed affidavit. For more details, review our residency information.
Definitions
Open Illinois provides information, resources, and guidance for undocumented students, DACA students, and those impacted by immigration reform.
Additional Resources
If you have any questions or concerns, don't hesitate to email us or call us at 217-333-0302. You can also visit our Chicago Satellite Office. Please call them to schedule an appointment.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
