https://admissions.illinois.edu/Apply/Freshman/process
First-Year Application Process, Undergraduate Admissions, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign


                                Undergraduate Admissions


Primary Menu
First-Year
Transfer
Other
Admitted
Utility Menu
How to Apply as a First-Year Applicant
Apply Now
1. Gather your application materials.
Before starting the application, be sure to have a copy of your high school transcript, any test score results you're planning to include, and a credit card if you plan to pay the application fee upon submission.
2. Complete your application.
You'll provide your high school courses/grades, choose your major and a second choice, complete our writing prompts, and list your extracurricular activities, honors, and awards. You can also decide whether you want us to use your ACT/SAT scores in our review. We'll use all information submitted with your application to determine admission into campus honors programs and award merit-based scholarships.
Courses & Grades
List your high school courses and grades exactly as they appear on your transcript. If you're applying through Common App, we'll send you information on submitting your self-reported academic record after you apply. We'll require an official transcript only if you enroll at UIUC.
Test Scores (if provided)
We are test-optional, meaning you’re not required to submit ACT and/or SAT test results when you apply. Depending on whether or not you report ACT or SAT scores, a TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test may be required.
 If you choose to report your scores, enter your highest test scores for the ACT composite and/or the SAT total without super-scoring, along with the highest sub-scores you earned in each category regardless of test date. We don't require or use the ACT writing test. We'll require official scores only if you enroll at UIUC. Our SAT code is 1836, and our ACT code is 1154.
If you're including these scores, you should report your highest TOEFL iBT (do not use MyBest score), IELTS, or Duolingo English Test score and highest sub-scores, regardless of test date. Test scores that will be used to fulfill the English proficiency requirement must be taken within two years of the applicant’s date of enrollment in the university. The Duolingo English Test, the TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition, and the IETLS Indicator will be accepted for fall 2022, but a decision has not been made for future terms.
We'll require official scores only if you enroll at UIUC. Our TOEFL iBT code is 1836. IELTS scores should be sent electronically via your testing center to the following account name: University of Illinois Urbana Champaign Undergraduate. Duolingo English Test scores should be sent electronically to the following account name: University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign Undergraduate Admissions.
3. Pay the application fee.
When you submit the application, you'll pay a nonrefundable fee by credit card. If you're a domestic student who qualifies for a fee waiver, your guidance counselor must submit our fee waiver form. We must receive a fee or fee waiver form by our deadlines for your application to be considered complete.
4. See if you have further application requirements.
Depending on the major you're applying to, you may have a few more things to do.
International Applicants
You should also be aware of some additional information and requirements.
Art + Design Applicants
You will also need to submit a portfolio. More information is available through the School of Art and Design or by calling 217-333-6632.
Dance Applicants
You will also need to complete an audition. More information is available through the Department of Dance or by calling 217-333-1010.
Music Applicants
You will also need to complete a music application and audition or interview. More information is available through the School of Music or by calling 217-244-7899.
Theatre Applicants
You will also need to interview and complete an audition or portfolio review. More information is available through the Department of Theatre or by calling 217-333-2371.
5. Check your status.
Once you’ve submitted your application, check its status by clicking on your application in myIllini.
Coalition & Common App Applicants
If you already have a myIllini account, you can use it to view your status.  If you don't have a myIllini account, we'll create one for you and you'll receive an email a few days after submitting your application with instructions on how to access it.
8 Things You Can Do to Prepare for College
Wondering what you can do to prepare for college right now? Download our step-by-step College Planning Guide to set yourself up for success!
Download
Contact Information
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday (closed on campus holidays)
Telephone: 217-333-0302(8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Email: admissions@illinois.edu
Fax: 217-244-4614
Text: 217-600-2234(2-4 p.m. CST, Monday-Friday)
Helpful Resources
Connect With Us
© Copyright 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Accreditation | Consumer Info
Web Privacy Notice
Want more info?
