https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Tools/Laundry
Laundry, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Laundry
Laundry in University Housing
No Quarters Needed - Cost of Laundry Is Included
The cost of laundry is included as part of your room and board or rent. There is no charge for residence hall or apartment residents to use the laundry machines in University Housing.  
Report a Laundry Issue
Have a broken machine or damaged clothes? You can get help using one of these methods:
Laundry View: View Laundry Status & Get Notifications  

Want to see which washers or dryers are available? Need to check on the status of your laundry? Want laundry notifications sent directly to you? Check out the University of Illinois Laundry View page! Bookmark it for all of your future laundry days.
Detergent Recommendations
University Housing's laundry rooms have energy-efficient washers and dryers. High efficiency detergent (look for labels marked with "HE") is required for our laundry machines. Many major brands of laundry detergent are now designed to be used in high efficiency machines. You can find them at grocery or retail stores, or in the Student Dining and Residential Programs building at 57 North.
Laundry Tips
Visit www.campusclothesline.com and learn about laundry. Here's some things you'll find:
Locations
Residence Halls
Laundry locations vary, but all residence hall laundry facilities are close and convenient. Laundry rooms have wireless access, so you can bring your laptop, too!
Orchard Downs Apartments
Two laundry facilities are conveniently located within the community. The North Laundry is located near apartment buildings 1902, 1904, and 1906. The South Laundry is located near apartment buildings 2030, 2032, and 2034. Residents will receive a laundry key when checking in to Family & Graduate Housing. One extra laundry key can be given to households with two or more adults.
Goodwin-Green Apartments
Laundry facilities are located in 1107 W. Green and in 300 S. Goodwin basement areas. 
Ashton Woods Apartments
Washers and dryers are available in the lower level of each building for resident use. 
Laundry Links
About Us
Tools
Resources
