https://housing.illinois.edu/apply-now
Apply Now, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Apply Now
Residence Halls

Before you complete your contract, here are some helpful resources:
First-Time Attending Students
If you're a newly admitted student, please accept your offer of admission to the University of Illinois, and then wait 48 hours before completing your housing contract. 
Current Students
University Apartments
We offer a variety of apartment and lease options for graduate students, research associates, students with families, faculty/staff, transfer students and visiting scholars. To be eligible for these accommodations, the leaseholder of a University Housing apartment must be formally affiliated with the University. Apply now for University Apartments
Meal Plan Only
Do you live off campus but still want a meal plan? You are welcome to dine with us in our award-winning dining facilities. Our meal plans can be used at five dining halls conveniently located all over campus. Sign up for a meal plan.
Additional Housing 
During the year, specialty housing is available for students in both the halls and apartments. Please choose one of the following options if you are living in the halls and will need housing during the fall, winter, or spring breaks, or if you are visiting the University and in need of guest housing.
Summer Housing 
We offer summer housing for students who plan to live in the residence halls during the summer. Summer rates are affordable, and Daniels Hall is conveniently located on campus near the Illini Union. 
Short-Stay Housing
Fully furnished apartments for any individual/group affiliated with the University of Illinois for a term of 1 month–6 months. Learn more about Short-Stay Housing. Apply for Short-Stay Housing
Break Housing
For students who plan to remain in the residence halls during periods when most residence halls are closed. 
Temporary Housing
If you received a message that you were assigned to a room in temporary housing for the fall, read the temporary housing web page for photos, a video, and more details.
Gender-Inclusive Options
Visit our Gender-Inclusive Options page to see the range of choices available to you. You may also contact the Housing Information Office at (217) 333-7111 or housing@illinois.edu for more information.
Accommodation Information
If you believe you require housing accommodations due to a documented disability-related condition, you will need to register with the Division of Disability Resources and Educational Services (DRES) in addition to submitting your housing application. DRES is responsible for providing services to students with disabilities and is available to consult with other areas of campus regarding ADA accessibility issues. For further information on how to register with DRES, visit www.disability.illinois.edu or call (217) 333-4603. See University Housing's ADA options.
See Also
About Us
Tools
Resources
