https://housing.illinois.edu:443/AboutUs/Mission-Vision
Mission & Vision, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Mission & Vision
Mission
University Housing is an essential element of the Illinois experience. We create communities that transform student lives.
Vision
University Housing communities create success for every student.
Inclusiveness Statement
We define Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity in the following ways:
Diversity is expressed in different experiences, perspectives, worldviews, modes of communication and behavior and belief systems and values that we learn within our different social groupings. Such social groupings include race and ethnicity, gender and gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, language, culture, national origin, religious commitments, age, (dis)ability status and political perspective.
Inclusion is the deliberate effort to ensure differences are welcome, different perspectives are respectfully heard and where every individual feels a sense of belonging and inclusion and can participate in decision-making.
Equity is actively challenging and responding to bias, harassment and discrimination, while also seeking equitable outcomes through just and fair practices, policies, procedures for equal opportunity for all persons, particularly for the historically underserved and underrepresented.  
Strategic Plan
Greetings from University Housing at the University of Illinois!
 
Strategic planning in University Housing since 2017 has utilized the University Housing’s Extended Strategic Plan and incorporated the plans from Student Affairs The Plan – Inspire the Future (illinois.edu), and the University of Illinois Strategic Plan (illinois.edu).
 
The goals of 1) Fostering scholarship, discovery, and innovation, 2) Providing transformative learning experiences, 3) Making a significant and visible societal and community impact and 4) Stewarding resources and strategically investing in the future, continue to be the focus in University Housing. This solid foundation can be found in both the Student Affairs strategic plan and the campus plan. Our plans are relevant and aligned across campus.
 
Like other campuses across the country and world, University Housing is thriving amidst the tide of change. Everyone working within University Housing has encountered hurdles never imagined. Yet, University Housing continues to place the students’ experience first, and work to make an impact in forming and transforming their learning experience. In current times, we have made the most significant and visible community impact – University Housing had more residential students living in the residence halls and apartments this year, even as the pandemic continues.
 
The staff in University Housing have worked tirelessly to steward the resources and strategically invest in the future. 
 
If you are seeking to learn about University Housing at the University of Illinois, I would encourage you to visit. I am honored to lead this organization - come join us!
 
Sincerely,
 
Alma R. Sealine
Executive Director
University Housing
Annual Report
Read the 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf)
Read the 2019-2020 Annual Report (pdf)
Read the 2018–2019 Annual Report (pdf) 
    
Read the 2017–2018 Annual Report (pdf) 
Read the 2016–2017 Annual Report (web link) 
We are a part of Student Affairs at Illinois
About Us
Tools
Resources
