https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Resources/Technology
Technology, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Technology
All housing printers now exclusively use Illini Cash! Click "Labs" for details.
IllinoisNet
All laptops, phones and tablets should be connected to IllinoisNet. Use your NetID and Active Directory (AD) password to login.
For instructions on connecting to IllinoisNet click here and scroll to "Connect To IllinoisNet".
IllinoisNet_Guest
All gaming and streaming devices should be connected to IllinoisNet_Guest, visit https://go.illinois.edu/illinoisnetguest  and click "Add Device". You will need to enter the device's MAC/Physical address which can be found through the device's network settings.
For casting devices check the "enable AirGroup" box when adding your device and enter your NetID.
Now connect the device to the IllinoisNet_Guest network and continue with your setup. 
For more complete instructions on connecting your device to IllinoisNet_Guest click here and scroll to "Connect A Device".
Get help
Connect to the Internet
Quick links
Popular pages
Technology
About Us
Tools
Resources
