https://housing.illinois.edu/News/Coronavirus
Coronavirus , University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Coronavirus 
Most current, detailed COVID-19 information maintained by University Housing. 
We are monitoring developments related to COVID-19. Below are updates and FAQs related to the virus and its impact on University Housing communities. 
University Housing is following regular updates from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and developing plans to address the unique needs of our hall and apartment communities.
For overall campus information, visit the Illinois COVID-19 website, including Spring 2022 guidelines for returning to campus. 
Last Updated: 1/14/2022 
University Housing and Private Certified Housing Questions
 
With our extensive health and safety measures in place, all first-year attending undergraduate students are required to live on campus in University Housing or Private Certified Housing, unless approved for exemption. 
First-year graduate students, doctoral students or students with families are not required to live on campus, but University Housing offers three apartment communities.

How will University Housing and Private Certified Housing facilities protect residents?
The health and safety of our residents is our top priority. University Housing has implemented the following safety guidelines and procedures in all of our residence halls, apartment communities and dining locations.  

This information is subject to change to remain in accordance with the the CDC. 
University Housing Residence Halls, Apartment Communities and Dining Locations:
For Private Certified Housing health and safety information, please contact individual Private Certified Housing units directly. 
I am living with a roommate. Will I have to wear a face covering while in my room/apartment? 
Roommates who are sharing a room/apartment, are considered a "family unit," similar to a private residence. While in their room/apartment, roommates (solo or together) do not need to wear face coverings. Residents are expected to put on a face covering before leaving their private space.
The roommate(s) of a student who tests positive will receive communication via email with information about quarantining only if they are not fully vaccinated, which includes having the booster. If they need to quarantine they are expected to go to their permanent residence to do so.
Am I required to get vaccinated if I live in University Housing or Private Certified Housing? 
It is required that all university students who are able to do so be fully vaccinated (defined as 14 days after the final dose) with a university-accepted COVID-19 vaccine.
Residents who are vaccinated should submit their Vaccination Record Card in the MyMcKinley Portal and have it verified. View the Illinois COVID-19 Vaccine webpage for more information on vaccinations and uploading your Vaccination Record Card. 
Residents who are not able to be vaccinated and/or who have not had their record submitted and verified will be required to participate in the COVID-19 testing program. 
View the Illinois COVID-19 Vaccine webpage for more information.
What does "fully vaccinated" mean?
"Fully vaccinated" is considered 2-weeks post-booster. It is important that individuals who are several months past their initial vaccination get their booster as soon as possible so they will not have to quarantine if exposed.
Do I have to quarantine if I am identified as a close contact?
Residents who arewithin 5 months of their second dose of a 2-dose vaccine (or 2 months of the J&J vaccine) are not required to quarantine if they are identified as a close contact.

Residents beyond 5 months of their second dose of a 2-dose vaccine (or beyond 2 months of the J&J vaccine) who have received a booster, are not required to quarantine if they are identified as a close contact.
What happens if I am required to quarantine or isolate at some point during the year?
University Housing is coordinating and partnering closely with the Champaign-Urbana Public Health District to support their work to manage contact tracing for all COVID-19 cases in Champaign County that are related to our residents. 
Isolation or quarantine as directed by CUPHD, University Housing, Private Certified Housing and Certified Greek Housing is mandatory. If you choose not to follow this guidance, you could be subject to student discipline, including immediate suspension for non-compliance. 
Given the expected surge from the omicron variant and the campus’ limited resources for isolation and quarantine space, any individual who can safely travel to their permanent address to isolate or quarantine will be asked to do so.  ‘Safely travel’ means transportation in a private vehicle; public transportation should not be taken.
With the upcoming expected surge in the coming weeks, campus quarantine and isolation assignments will no longer be in single-occupancy spaces. Where we have double rooms, individuals should expect to have another individual in isolation with them.
If campus quarantine and isolation spaces fill, we will work with the local health department on possible assignments in local motels for individuals who cannot safely travel home to isolate. Campus will provide transportation to these off-campus locations to assist.
View the Illinois COVID-19 website for campus quarantine and isolation guidelines.
View the University Housing COVID-19 quarantine and isolation webpage for specific University Housing procedures. 
For Private Certified Housing quarantine and isolation procedures, please contact individual Private Certified Housing units directly. 
 
 
About Us
Tools
Resources
