https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Resources/illini-cash
Illini Cash, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Illini Cash
Illini Cash
Illini Cash offers convenience for students, faculty, and staff to use your i-card for purchases. No need to carry cash, as Illini Cash is accepted at numerous locations on campus.

Adding Illini Cash to your i-card is a quick and convenient way to purchase food, books, computer equipment, printing, and other select services across campus.

There is no fee to open or use Illini Cash and it’s easy to add money with a credit card online or through the Illinois app. There is no minimum purchase required and active accounts do not expire. Illini Cash is not refundable once it is put on your i-card. See Terms and Conditions for more details
Purchase Illini Cash
View My Balances
My i-card is lost or stolen
Illini Cash Over Breaks
Illini Cash stays on your i-card as long as you’re an Illini student and have an active i-card. Once you have a balance, it is non-refundable. It won’t go away over semester or summer break. 
You must use your Illini Cash at least once within a 12-month period. If you do not use it after 12-months, there is a $5 per month charge until you make a purchase or have a zero balance.
You would need to have made a purchase using Illini Cash since August 2018 to avoid a fee charge this summer.
Illini Cash is accepted at these locations
Problems Adding Illini Cash?
If you indicated you have a preferred name through Self-Service, please make sure to enter the preferred name when adding Illini Cash.  
 
Example:  Robert Smith entered the preferred first name Bob in Self-Service.  He would need to use the first name Bob when adding Illini Cash.
 
If you get this error message Sorry, we can’t find your UIN in our database. Please verify that your UIN, First Name and Last Name match what is on your i-card. If it does, then your i-card has not been activated. Please follow the instructions below:
 
1. Visit go.uillinois.edu/MyPhotoSubmit and login.
2. Make sure that the page displays “Your i-card is being mailed.”
3. Enter your 16-digit card number. It is on the front of your i‑card in the lower right.
4. Click the Activate this i-card button, and refresh your browser.
5. Make sure that the page displays “Your i-card is active.”
 

About Us
Tools
Resources
