https://housing.illinois.edu:443/AboutUs/hall-tours
Hall Tours, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Hall Tours
Spring 2022 Tour Information


Are you a prospective student thinking about attending Illinois? Planning a visit to campus? Come see a room in our residence halls while you’re here! 
Schedule
Undergraduate Hall tours are available Monday - Friday from 2 - 4 p.m. CT (excluding Holidays and University breaks when classes are not in session) through May 4, 2022. 
Halls Open For Tours
Illinois Street Residence Hall (ISR) | Urbana North
Illinois Street Residence Hall (Townsend and Wardall) is an example of a recently renovated traditional hall. This air-conditioned hall is home to the Innovation Living-Learning Community and Honors Living-Learning Community and has individual-use bathrooms. Both Townsend and Wardall are connected to the ISR dining center, which underwent a complete renovation and reopened for service in Fall 2020.

Call the front desk at 217-333-4640 on courtesy phone or cell for entrance to the building.
Nugent Hall | Ikenberry Commons North 
Nugent is an example of new construction. This air-conditioned hall houses mostly upper-division undergraduate students and has a combination of community and individual-use bathrooms. The first floor is home to the Beckwith Residential Community program for students with severe physical disabilities. Nugent Hall is connected to the Student Dining and Residential Programs (SDRP) building, which houses the dining center for Ikenberry Commons.
Call the front desk at 217-333-1651 on courtesy phone or cell for entrance to the building.
What To Expect
Hall tours are typically led by a student staff member. They will show common areas in the hall (like lounges, study areas, and laundry rooms), bathroom spaces, and a typical student room. You may also get to see a dining hall. Along the way, your tour guide will talk about all the great things that go along with living in University Housing such as how meal plans work, how our student and professional staff support our residents, living-learning communities, academic programs, and student involvement and employment opportunities.
Allow approximately 30 minutes for your tour. 
Parking
Parking around each of the halls is extremely limited. You can park at any metered space near the hall you'll be touring, but open spots can sometimes be difficult to find. Each hall is a short walk (10 minutes max) from the Main Quad or feel free to hop on an MTD bus.
Unable to Visit in Person?
If you can't make it to campus, you can watch quick tours of each hall on our YouTube Hall Tour Playlist.
More Hall Information
Get more information on undergraduate halls and graduate-upper division halls including location, special features, floor plans, and room layouts. Can't make it to an in-person tour? Click here to check out out virtual tours. 
Tour Feedback
We are always working to improve our services. Please complete a feedback form about your experience on our tour program.





About Us
Tools
Resources
