https://housing.illinois.edu:443/AboutUs/Sustainability
Sustainability, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Sustainability
HOUSING SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
A commitment to responsible stewardship of resources and sustainable practices is built into the fabric of University Housing. From everyday acts such as recycling and coffee ground collection, to LEED-certified construction and goals in our strategic planning, we strive to make sustainability an integral part of our department and a focal point in future decision-making.
2015 Governor's Sustainability Award
University Housing was awarded a Governor's Sustainability Award on October 27, 2015. The Governor’s Awards recognize organizations in Illinois that have demonstrated a commitment to environmental excellence through outstanding and innovative sustainability. The University of Illinois one of only 19 companies and organizations awarded; it was the university's first time receiving an Illinois Governor's Sustainability Award. 
Recycling
University Housing residents are encouraged to recycle to help reduce waste in our communities. Read more on the recycling page.
LEED Certification
University Housing's newest construction is being built to meet LEED gold certification. The Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) organization provides a rating system to certify buildings for their commitment to environmental sustainability. Our workers use low-VOC materials (improving indoor air quality), utilize local materials whenever possible, and recycle materials to reduce landfill waste. LEED certification on new construction
Sustainability Living-Learning Community
Located in the Lincoln Avenue Residence Halls, the Sustainability Living-Learning community welcomes students to learn about the diverse aspects of sustainability while living among their peers. Sustainability LLC website.
Water Savings
Housing Facilities has installed 50 glass fillers and 3 bottle filling stations in the last year which currently has saved more than 16,000 water bottles from being purchased.
Green Dining
University Housing Dining Services strives to create an environmentally responsible dining program, from how we source the food, to practices like trayless dining and reducing waste.
We are proud that our initiatives have helped University Housing win the 2015 Governor's Sustainability Award. Among other Dining awards, we received the 2015 Sustainability in Waste Management award from the National Association of College and University Food Services. The University of Illinois also achieved a spot on the Top 25 Healthiest Colleges list.
All of our residential dining locations are trayless. Trayless dining means less wasted food, less wasted energy from washing trays, and substantial water savings.
University Housing Dining Services uses locally grown or produced products as often as possible.
Dining services recycles glass, paper, cardboard, #1 & #2 plastic, tin cans, and used cooking oil among other things. Even our food waste gets recycled.
Housing Dining Services regularly participates with students and academic units on campus on sustainability based projects and research.
Green IT
Technology Services is averaging around $4,000 in annual power savings by using server virtualization, where one server is used to operate multiple applications at a time, resulting in fewer servers and less electrical usage. In addition, Technology Services uses in-row cooling in its data centers. These units cool only the servers, rather than wasting energy cooling the entire room as in most conventional systems. This innovation generates just over $7,000 in annual power savings.
Printing is a large consumer of resources, and so duplex printing is the default option on all University Housing lab printers.
Green Cleaning
Integrated Pest Management Program
University Housing's pest management program is developed around environmentally responsible, low-toxicity methods. In July 2014 our program was recognized with Green Shield Certification.
 
 
Housing Director Alma R. Sealine, Project Manager Bryan Johnson, and Housing Food Stores Operations Manager Michael Olinger accepted the 2015 Governor's Sustainability Award.
The campus Sustainable Student Farm supplies fresh produce to our dining halls
Bousfield's covered bike racks helped contribute to the hall's LEED Platinum certification
About Us
Tools
Resources
