https://housing.illinois.edu/living-options/living-learning-communities/honors-llc
Honors Living-Learning Community, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Honors Living-Learning Community
Honors LLC 
About Honors LLC
The Honors Living-Learning Community is housed in Wardall Hall on floors 6 through 12. Designed specifically for James Scholars and Campus Honors Program students, this community offers special interdisciplinary courses, allowing Honors LLC residents greater interaction with Honors faculty. Curricular and co-curricular aspects of the LLC are designed around the LLC’s three pillars: Inquiry, Civic Engagement and Leadership. 
Selection Process
Current students may choose the Honors LLC during Housing Sign-Up. 
New, incoming students may choose the Honors LLC if available spaces remain during new student Room Selection.
Important Notes:
Move-In and Fall Orientation
The Move-In date for the Honors LLC will be Tuesday, August 16. Orientation for Fall 2022 is scheduled for Wednesday, August 17 and Thursday, August 18. The Orientation program is an opportunity for Honors LLC residents to move in early, meet other Honors LLC residents, participate in fun activities and get to know your new home and campus. Orientation will be something you won’t want to miss, as it is usually one of the best of times for first-year students in living-learning communities. Attendees pay an Orientation fee that covers early arrival housing and meals, which allows participants to be some of the first students to arrive on campus and have a head start on making new friends and building connections with future faculty and staff! 
Honors Abroad
Students have the opportunity to enroll in a course throughout the semester that includes a short-term, in-country travel component. In the past years, Honors embarked on an adventure to Costa Rica (Winter Break) and London & Paris (Spring Break). The course for Costa Rica was Culture, Society, & Health, and London & Paris was Culture, Society, and the Arts. These courses are an additional fee. 
Honors LLC Study Abroad will resume in Fall 2022 with ENG 177: Global Health. Students do not need to be Engineering students, as this course is interdisciplinary. Travel to Brazil will occur over Winter Break. Please contact the Honors LLC program director for more information.
Required Course
New course information coming. The Honors LLC program director will e-mail all new first-year students with registration information.
 
Rates
See the rates for 2022-2023 to live in Wardall Hall.
Honors LLC residents pay an additional fee of $300 for the academic year to support the co-curricular and extracurricular learning opportunities offered in this community.

The Honors LLC is on floors on Wardall Hall floors 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12. 
About Us
Tools
Resources
