https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Resources/Parking
Parking, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Parking
University Housing Parking Lots
Limited residential parking is available for Daniels Hall and Sherman Hall residents, and for apartment residents at Ashton Woods, Goodwin-Green, and Orchard Downs. 

For residents of Daniels, Sherman Hall and Goodwin-Green apartments: Apply for a parking permit at the Parking Department. The University's Parking Department determines the annual fee, bills your account, and distributes the permit from their office. 

For residents of Ashton Woods and Orchard Downs: Request parking for one of these two Housing locations. 
Each Ashton Woods and Orchard Downs leaseholder is eligible for one parking permit each lease year.  If a leaseholder has a dependent (spouse, parent, etc.) living with them in their apartment, the leaseholder may apply for a second permit for their dependent's car. At Orchard Downs, there is enough parking for one vehicle per family. If you have a second car, it should be parked in the “L” lot at the far south end of the complex. 
Current residents who already have registered their car and have a green parking permit, will continue to use that permit through the 2021-2022 lease year.  To update a green parking permit for the 2021-2022 lease year, residents are asked to bring their current one to the Family & Graduate Housing Office.   
Current residents or new residents who need to register their car and obtain a parking permit, will need to apply. The Family & Graduate Housing Office will notify residents by email when their parking hangtag is ready to be picked up at the office.
Appropriate parking permits must be hung on the rear view mirror of the vehicle window. Permits are valid through July 31 each year. Permits must be returned with keys prior to vacating the apartment.
Parking Department Lots
For the other residence hall locations, please contact the University's Parking Department, which is located at 1201 W. University Avenue in Urbana.

The Parking Department lots closest to University Housing residence halls are listed below for your convenience.

Urbana Residence Halls: (Allen, Babcock, Blaisdell, Busey-Evans, Carr, Lincoln, Oglesby, Saunders, and Trelease): F23 near corner of Lincoln and Florida Avenues

Ikenberry Commons Residence Halls (Barton, Bousfield, Hopkins, Lundgren, Nugent, Scott, Snyder, Taft, Van Doren, and Weston): E14 west of State Farm Center and south of Kirby Avenue, between First and Oak Streets
As with most college campuses, parking on the Illinois campus is limited. Please observe all signs posted at lot entrances. The campus Parking Department can help with temporary permits, parking information, and detailed maps.
About Us
Tools
Resources
