https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Resources/residence-hall-libraries
Residence Hall Libraries, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Residence Hall Libraries
The Residence Hall Libraries are one of the great benefits to living with University Housing. Come and study, get research tips, join a book club, or pick up the latest movie or video game. 



 
With an active I-Card, undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff can check out items from our wide selection of popular books (fiction and non-fiction), DVDs, CDs, magazines, board games, and video games.
Location Perk! There are two residence hall libraries to choose from — one in Urbana and one in Champaign. The Illinois Street Library (Urbana) is located on the lower level of ISR. The Ikenberry Commons Library (Champaign) is located on the second floor of the Student Dining & Residential Programs building.
Collection Perk! We divide our collection into a General Circulating Collection (which includes non-fiction and historical and contemporary fiction) and several special sections: Jobs and Careers; Identity Studies; Mystery and Thriller; Personal Development; Romance; Science Fiction and Fantasy; and Study Guides. 
Convenience Perk! Students, faculty, and staff can reserve items from any on-campus library or location within the I-Share system for pick up at their nearest residence hall library — get what you need right inside your home! 
Programming Perk! Our libraries also offer special programs a throughout the year.
Location Hours 
IKE Library: M-F noon-6:30 p.m. and by appointment weekdays 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. (beginning August 23)

ISR Library: M-F noon-6:30 p.m. and by appointment weekdays 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. (beginning August 23)
Please make an appointment at least 24 hours in advance by emailing hsg-rhlib@illinois.edu or calling 217-333-7150.
Unique Collections
ISR Library: Global Crossroads, Health Professions, Honors, Intersections, Innovation, Sustainability, and WIMSE Living-Learning Communities' Collections
IKE Library: Chinese-Language Collection, Korean-Language Collection, Spanish-Language Collection, Wassaja Collection, and Business, Weston Exploration, and LEADS Living-Learning Communities' Collections 
Contact 
ISR Library: (217) 333-0078
IKE Library: (217) 333-7959
Virtual Residence Hall Library Tours
IKE
ISR

Social Media
Follow us on social media! 

Facebook  
Twitter
Instagram
 
 
 
 
 




Helpful Links

About Us
Tools
Resources
