https://housing.illinois.edu:443/Resources/Get-Involved
Get Involved, University Housing at the University of Illinois

Residence Halls

For first-year, transfer, upper-division, and graduate students.

Living-Learning Communities

Communities with in-hall courses and specialized programs around a common theme.

Apartments

For sophomores and up, graduate students, families, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars.

Special Options

Unique options for students with special situations and needs.

Why Housing

Our amenities and vibrant communities make us the best choice for your home at Illinois.

Menus

Our menus offer variety, fresh ingredients, and local sourcing whenever possible.

Locations

We're located across campus, never far from class or home.

Meal Plans

Meal plans are accepted at all five of our dining halls.

Nutrition

Nutrition staff can consult on special dietary needs and provide practical tools for informed choices.

About Dining

Our dedicated team works hard to provide quality and an environmentally responsible dining program. 

Services

Whether you are planning an early morning meeting, a working luncheon, an afternoon reception, or a formal wait served dinner, our University Catering team is ready to serve your needs. 

Locations

University Catering provides catering services to a wide range of locations. 

Menus

See our catering menus for a glimpse of the many food and beverage options you can choose from for your event. 

Our Staff

Meet the talented catering staff who work hard to make your event shine.

Guest Services

Our conference and event staff is committed to providing excellent service to ensure your conference, seminar, or camp goes as smoothly as possible.

Locations

Our campus has a variety of meeting facilities to choose from to meet your conference needs.

Event Planner

We look forward to assisting you with planning and hosting your unique event. 

Parents

Resources for parents and guardians of current residents.

Student with a Family

Coming to campus with your family? We have a home and resources for you.
Get Involved
Get Involved in Student Life
Undergraduate Residence Halls
University Housing is a diverse and active community where there’s always something going on. Whether it’s exploring other cultures, getting involved with student organizations, or being an I-Guide who assists new students during move-in, you will have plenty to do. 
Recent Programs Include: 
Cotton Club Variety Show, Midwest Asian American Students Union (MAASU), Dim Sum Night, Association for Black Culture Centers (ABCC) Annual Conference, Black O.U.T.S (Organizations United for Total Success), United States Hispanic Leadership Institute, Tunnel of Oppression, Civil Rights Pilgrimage and Alternative Spring Break.

The Student Dining & Residential Programs (SDRP) building is home to residence hall student organizations. The Residential Inclusion and Leadership Education (I and L) team coordinates student groups in the residence halls.
The I and L office is located at:
Student Dining and Residential Programs Building (SDRP)
Leadership Suite, 2081 
301 E. Gregory Drive
Champaign, IL 61820
Phone: 217-244-9707


Resources
Graduate Upper-Division Halls
Residents of our graduate upper-division halls can get involved with the Resident Leadership Board (RLB). The RLB is made up of diverse student leaders and residents from both buildings. Students can become a part of the RLB at any time during the year. The organization’s goals focus around a wide range of events and activities from suggesting improvements, to leadership development, to planning social events. Read more about the Resident Leadership Board. Request meeting/event space.
Visit the graduate halls on Facebook and Twitter.
University Apartments
An exciting and vital part of community life in Family & Graduate Housing includes the many free activities and programs offered for residents of all ages. We enjoy offering these opportunities to you and your family and hope that you will have time to get involved. Hundreds of activities take place each year, including weekly events such as Cooking Club or Parent-Child Playgroup, and annual traditions like Final Fling or Fall Festival.
Resources
Civil Rights Pilgrimage Trip
Students at IMPACT Conference in New Mexico
Final Fling at Orchard Downs
About Us
Tools
Resources
