https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/careers
Careers | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Careers
Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors for Fall 2022!
Duties and time commitments are dependent upon assignment and may include one or more of the following tasks. For assisting professors and lecturers: classroom assistance; conducting discussion sections; holding office hours; grading homework sets; and assisting in the grading of reports, tests, quizzes, and exams. For tutoring: facilitate tutor sessions to help students to understand core course materials. It is estimated that the total time commitment depends upon the assignment but is expected to be no more than 8-10 hours per week.
Qualifications: Undergraduate student applicants should be in chemical engineering and should have completed three or more ChBE courses, maintain a high GPA (preferably 3.7 or higher), and possess strong communication skills. Graduate students are welcome to apply. Degrees in disciplines with similar ChemE backgrounds may be considered.
Applications should be received by noon on April 29. Submit the application package to the departmental office; contact information is below (electronic submission is requested). Late applications may be considered. 
Procedures for Application:  
Send to:Jadii RodgersDepartment AssistantDepartment of Chemical and Biomolecular EngineeringE-mail: jadii@illinois.edu
Current Job Opportunities
Research Assistant Professor
The Molecule Maker Lab Institute (MMLI) is an NSF Artificial Intelligence Institute for Molecular Discovery, Synthetic Strategy, and Manufacturing at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, which is becoming a global epicenter for molecule making innovation.
The MMLI is seeking a Research Assistant Professor who will collaborate with researchers across all Institute Thrusts to apply artificial intelligence to synthesis planning, catalyst design and optimization, manufacturing, development of functional materials, and broadening access to molecule making. This position will provide multiple opportunities for professional development that will help prepare them for an academic faculty position or an industry managerial position. 
Please visit go.chbe.illinois.edu/ApplyNowMMLI to view the complete position announcement and application instructions. The application deadline for full consideration is February 21, 2022.
University of Illinois faculty, staff and students are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you are not able to receive the vaccine for medical or religious reasons, you may seek approval for an exemption in accordance with applicable University processes.
The U of I is an EEO Employer/Vet/Disabledhttp://go.illinois.edu/EEO that participates in the federal e-Verify program and participates in a background check program focused on prior criminal or sexual misconduct history.
Apply Now 
Life on the Silicon Prairie
Urbana-Champaign is a place where people come together to bring big ideas to life. We're home to the tech incubator University of Illinois Research Park and surrounded by some of the richest farmland in the world. Our campus community is home to a wide range of exceptional research and scholarship, but what truly sets us apart is a collaborative environment that leads to groundbreaking discovery, innovation, and partnerships that invite new ways of thinking and working. 
Unique "Micro-Urban" Community
Urbana-Champaign is on an accelerated development track, emerging as a leading example of a "micro-urban" community—a population center of less than 250,000 with a set of highly desirable attributes commonly found in larger cities. Our vibrant arts/culture/nightlife scene, internationally diverse population, strong technology base, and commitment to societal issues coupled with a world-class university make this an ideal place to live, study, and work. Plus, we are just a few hours away from three metropolises: Chicago, St. Louis, and Indianapolis.
Better Living, Less Hassle
Learn More

CHBE’s Cultural Resource Guide to Champaign-Urbana was created by our Graduate Student Advisory Council (GSAC) to highlight some of the food and experiences that our community has to offer.Download
We are committed to creating a safe and welcoming environment for students, faculty, and staff to thrive—learn more about our initiatives to support diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
Learn More

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
