https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/graduate/admitted-student
Graduate Admitted Student Information | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Graduate Admitted Student Information
Welcome to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois! 
Congratulations! You've been invited to join the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. We are thrilled that you are considering our program— and whether you are participating in our graduate recruitment events in person or virtually—we hope that you find what you're looking for in a doctoral program here at Illinois.
Our students are drawn to our department’s breadth of expertise, but they choose Illinois to be a part of our collaborative teams who make these initiatives a reality—together we’re tackling challenges related to health, energy, and the environment. Our department encompasses a wide range of disciplines in chemical sciences and engineering. We specialize in unlocking the potential of individual units—from molecules to students—to create societal impact on grand scales through four research areas:
We hope that this page will help showcase all that Illinois has to offer you. If you have any questions about this event, our department, or life in our community—please reach out to us at chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu.
Jump to In-Person Visitor Information  Jump to Virtual Visitor Information
We can’t wait to help you find your future lab and shape your future career!
Graduate Recruitment CommitteeDepartment of Chemical and Biomolecular EngineeringUniversity of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Welcome Video

We are a vibrant, supportive community of chemical engineering scholars. Learn more from our current graduate students about what our department has to offer both in and out of the lab. 
This video features graduate students Chris Torres, Energy and Sustainability; Prapti Kafle, Soft Matter and Advanced Materials; Liliana Bello Fernández, Computational Engineering; and Ryan Miller, Biomolecular Engineering.
Download Graduate Program Brochure
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
We created our Diversity page to share resources and content to support, encourage, and celebrate our students who add to the diversity and strength of our community. We understand that diversity takes many forms such as gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability status, national origin, religion, and socio-economic status, among others. While we value the perspectives and contributions of our DEI students, we also recognize the unique challenges that they may face while navigating the higher education system. Our goal is to foster a sense of belonging and empowerment to help each student define and achieve success in our program and beyond. 
Visit our Diversity page
DEI Contact Sheet
Our DEI Contact Sheet is a resource where current graduate students in the department have volunteered to be a resource to answer DEI-related questions from the incoming/prospective students. We want to foster conversations between potential and current graduate students with shared identities that might not fit into the footprint of our recruitment events. Thus, we’ve attached a contact sheet so you can reach out to our graduate students for 1:1 conversations. 
Access DEI Contact Sheet
Meet Our DEI Students
DJ Walker
Danielle Meyer
Haley Vapnik
Aliki Kolliopoulos 
Aleczandria Tiffany
Research Information and Resources
Here's an overview of some of the research facilities and services at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign where our faculty and students have access to cutting-edge resources and multidisciplinary collaborators to realize their research goals. Our department is committed to ensuring that our students have access to the equipment and expertise that they need to be successful. 
School of Chemical Sciences
Our department is nested within the School of Chemical Sciences (SCS), which provides unrivaled services and resources to support our students and faculty. This dedicated research infrastructure sets our program apart. SCS created a Center of Research and Educational Support (CORES) endowment to perpetually provide our researchers with the best equipment and support staff required to achieve the frontier research objectives of our faculty and students.
Download CORES Brochure
High-throughput Screening FacilityMicroanalysis LaboratoryMass Spectrometry LaboratoryNMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) LaboratoryX-Ray Diffraction Laboratory
Cell Media FacilityComputer Applications and Network Services and Computer Electronics Electrical ServicesGraphic ServicesSCS Human ResourcesSCS Business Office
Glass ShopMachine ShopStoreroom
Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology
The Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology is a community of scholars and a physical space to foster interdisciplinary collaboration, inspire bold scientific risk-taking, and nurture new ideas and discoveries. The Beckman Institute is home to two core research facilities: the Biomedical Imaging Center and the Imaging Technology Group. 
  
Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology
The Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology (IGB) is where science meets society—an interdisciplinary institute dedicated to transformative research and technology in life sciences using team-based strategies to tackle grand societal challenges. IGB's Core Facilities—conveniently located in the concourse level of the building—provide a variety of services to the campus community.  
Core Facilities is your resource for biological microscopy and image analysis. The facility is meant to encourage innovation—try new techniques and approaches to achieve your research goals without a significant investment in instrumentation or time. The Core Facilities offers high-end equipment, user training, ongoing support (including experimental design and data interpretation), and 24-hour access.  The Core is a ZEISS Labs@location partner, enabling us to provide both beta instrumentation and advanced training to the campus. The Core Facilities offers a computer lab with memory and processing power for high-throughput research. The computers are equipped with Amira and Imaris software. 
Biocluster is the HPC service for the IGB, a mix of compute nodes and the distributed filesystem mentioned above to help solve essentially every Bioinformatics need.  Compute fees are based on the type of node, resources, and amount of time utilized. Twice a semester the Computer and Network Resource Group (CNRG), along with HPCBio (see below), offers classes on how to use HPC services, with a focus on Biocluster.  If you are interested, please ask CNRG for the next date or watch the weekly announcements for the schedule.
Holonyak Micro and Nanotechnology Laboratory
The Holonyak Micro and Nanotechnology Laboratory (HMNTL) is one of the country’s largest and most sophisticated university facilities for conducting photonics, microelectronics, biotechnology, and nanotechnology research. HMNTL’s 15 class 100 and 1000 cleanrooms, 46 general purpose labs, and 2,500 square foot biosafety level-2 bionanotechnology complex contain all the tools researchers need to conduct their work.
 
Materials Research Laboratory
The Materials Research Lab (MRL) fosters interdisciplinary research at the forefront of materials science by bringing together world-class faculty, staff, postdocs, students, and industry in materials science, condensed matter physics, and materials chemistry in a highly-collaborative, progressive research environment. The MRL hosts over 140 instruments valued at over $40 million. 
National Center for Supercomputing Applications
The National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) is a hub of trans-disciplinary research and digital scholarship. NCSA was the home of Blue Waters—one of the fastest supercomputers in the world—that ended its role as the NFS track 1 supercomputer after 6.75 years of production. At its launch, Delta will be the most performant GPU computing resource in NSF’s portfolio, making it a prime destination for advanced scientific research. 
 

Discover More Resources
We have a multitude of facilities and services that will be at your disposal as a graduate student at Illinois.
Facilities and Services

Find Your Research Lab
Learn more about our faculty's research efforts to find a lab that aligns with your research interests and goals. 
Faculty Research Profiles

Institutes and Collaborations
Check out cutting-edge interdisciplinary research projects and collaborations that you could be a part of at Illinois. 
Institutes and Collaborations
 
Graduate Concentration in Computational Science and Engineering
The CSE Transcriptable Graduate Concentration is designed to provide graduate students at both the Masters and Ph.D. levels with a solid base in problem-solving using computation as a major tool for modeling complicated problems in science and engineering.  This concentration requires students to complete 16 graduate credit hours. Courses taken toward this concentration will count towards the student’s graduate degree if permitted by the curriculum of their major and the concentration will be listed on their transcript upon graduation. The graduate concentration is only available for students enrolled in participating graduate degree programs. 
CSE Transcriptable Graduate Concentration  Approved CSE Concentration Courses
Virtual Laboratory Tours
Join us on a tour of the labs of professors (1) David Flaherty (2) Huimin Zhao (3) Ying Diao (4) Diwakar Shukla (5) Hyunjoon Kong to learn more about their students' projects and the equipment that they use in pursuit of their research. Each lab also has a full-length tour linked below!  

Flaherty Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of David Flaherty in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. The Flaherty Lab applies mechanistic and kinetic investigations of chemistry at surfaces to lead the design of more reactive and selective catalysts for atom-efficient activation and functionalization of small molecules to tackle challenges in environmental conservation and energy production. Video features graduate students Chris Torres, Zeynep Ayla, and Richa Ghosh.

Zhao Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of Huimin Zhao. The Zhao group studies four distinct yet related areas, including foundational tool development, drug discovery and development, industrial biotechnology, and mammalian synthetic biology. Video features graduate students Michael Volk and Pu Xue Mason.

Diao Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of Ying Diao  in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. The Diao Lab pursues the fundamental understanding and control of multi-scale molecular assembly processes to achieve sustainable manufacturing of electronic materials, energy devices, and therapeutic products. Video features graduate students Azzaya Khasbaatar and Kavin Elangovan.

Shukla Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of Diwakar Shukla. The Shukla group uses and develops both theoretical and computational tools to understand biophysical processes for applications in plant biology and human diseases. Video features graduate students Jesse Horne, Jiming Chen, and Matthew Chan.

Kong Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of Hyunjoon "Joon"  Kong. The Kong Lab pursues the synthesis, characterization, and processing of nanobiomaterials for diagnosis and therapies. Video features graduate students Ryan Miller, Joanne Hwang, Connie Hong, Yu-Heng Deng, and Kai-Yu Huang.

Sing Lab Tour Video
Join us on a tour of the lab of Charles Sing. The Sing Lab uses both theoretical and computational tools to tackle fundamental problems in polymer physics and develop design principles for bio-inspired soft materials.


Student Housing Information
Choosing a graduate program is a big decision. You're choosing where to build a career and a life for yourself over the next several years. Our graduate students are grateful to put down roots in our welcoming (and affordable) community. With your stipend, you can choose to live in the midst of our vibrant downtown or in a house with a yard that is a short commute from campus. Here are some resources to help you find the right fit for you! 
University Housing 
University Housing offers a variety of housing options designed to meet the unique needs of graduate students and students with families. Choose from two graduate upper-division halls (Daniels Hall and Sherman Hall) or three apartment communities: Orchard Downs, Goodwin-Green and Ashton Woods. All offer welcoming, diverse communities with great amenities and convenient locations.
Housing Options Brochure  Apartments Brochure  FY22 Ratecard
Virtual Housing Tours

Rachel's Historic Home Tour
Join us on a tour of Rachel's home in Urbana's Historic District, located just a short walk from campus. Video features graduate student Rachel Gaines and Rachel's roommate's cat, Fanny.

Victoria's Midtown Loft Home Tour
Join us on a tour of Victoria's home in Midtown, an open-concept loft with easy access to Downtown Champaign and Campustown. Video features  Victoria Kriuchkovskaia, Victoria's dog Izzy and cat Luna, and a visit from fellow graduate student Haley Vapnik.

Matthew's Campus Apartment Home Tour
Join us on a tour of Matthew's home that's located on campus (just a 5-minute walk to the lab!) above a selection of restaurants and cafés. Video features Matthew Chan. 

Haley's Downtown Apartment Home Tour
Join us on a tour of Haley's home in Downtown Champaign, located above a popular bar in the middle of all the action.  Video features Haley Vapnik and Victoria Kriuchkovskaia

Explore the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Get to know the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and what this campus has to offer through these virtual tours and guides. 

What is life like at UIUC?
Ever wonder what it’s like being a first-generation college student, a woman in computer science, a Big Ten football player, a student entrepreneur, or a performing musician? Join our host Alex and 11 star students at UIUC as they talk about extracurricular activities, majors, studying abroad, life after college, and advice for current and prospective students! Do you want to know what life is like at the University of Illinois? What our students are passionate about? What they do, and why? Stay tuned.
Looking to see campus? You're in the right place. Each student will greet you in a place important to them on a tour of journeys at the University of Illinois. The college tour isn't a traditional campus tour, but you'll see what kind of places on campus matter to each person we talk to.
If you’re hesitant to attend college or wondering how to enrich your college experience to launch your career, these students will inspire you to courageously pursue your goals and passions. Dream big, Illini!
Tour the UIUC Quad
The University of Illinois Urbana Champaign Quad, main quad, or main quadrangle, is at the heart of campus. It is one of the most breathtakingly beautiful spaces on any college campus! Located in the center of campus, the Quad is surrounded by historic buildings on every side, including the student-friendly Illini Union to the north and the regal Foellinger Auditorium to the south. It's beautiful, inclusive, and a welcoming space for all Illini to share. 

University of Illinois Hyperlapse
This timelapse/hyperlapse video was shot by members of Champaign Photography. Check out scenes from across our gorgeous campus. 

Alma Mater Cam
See what campus looks like right this moment with this live stream of the Alma Mater at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign! Alma Mater is a beloved statue created by alumnus and sculptor Lorado Taft. 

University Guide Magazine
This full-color, 52-page magazine offers University content and general campus information, including a campus map.
Download University Guide
Explore Our Community
Champaign-Urbana (CU) has so much to offer! Discover all the hidden gems within and just beyond our community, lovingly called the Silicon Prairie. We're excited to welcome you into our community where you will no doubt find many opportunities to get involved and thrive outside of the lab. 

You're Welcome
From the MRI, to the web browser to LED technology, the Champaign-Urbana community has a rich legacy of innovation that is virtually unmatched. Today, CU remains a hotbed of technology and innovation, full of opportunity. And, you're welcome to join us and experience our incredible micro-urban community with the best of both worlds: active city living paired with easygoing affordability.
(This video is kind of pithy—enjoy!)

Culinary Scene
Enjoy the diverse flavors in the greater Champaign County area's culinary scene.

Arts and Culture
Get an inside look at the places and events that make our arts & culture scene.

Champaign County Visitor's Guide
Check out this jam-packed experience guide for the greater Champaign-Urbana area.
Champaign County Visitor's Guide
CU Guide by Victoria
Past GSAC president Victoria Kriuchkovskaia (Harley Lab) made a mini-guide with a list of local restaurants, fun things to do, places to shop, and much more to do in Champaign-Urbana. She has included many pictures that she has taken during her tenure here. 
Victoria's CU Guide
Explore the Great Outdoors
There are tons of hidden treasures across the Midwest for folks who are looking to reconnect with nature. Here's an incomplete list of places and opportunities to get involved in outdoor activities locally. 
Options less than an hour away:
Options a bit farther away: 

Second Wind Running Club
If you're a runner, be sure to check out the Second Wind Running Club, which hosts weekly fun runs for runners of all levels and many races throughout the year. Our community hosts the Illinois Marathon, which is a huge event and a great place for folks looking for a flat race to qualify for Boston or to set a personal record. 
Prairie Cycle Club
If you're a runner, be sure to check out the Second Wind Running Club, which hosts weekly fun runs for runners of all levels and many races throughout the year. Our community hosts the Illinois Marathon, which is a huge event and a great place for folks looking for a flat race to qualify for Boston or to set a personal record. 
GoeHike
GoeHike is a blog run by a local couple that documents nearby, and often overlooked, spots for camping and hiking. Discover all the hidden gems that Illinois has to offer you. 
Paddling Illinois
Check out Paddling Illinois to discover places to put in and take out all over the state. Kickapoo State Park is a common spot for river kayaking whereas Homer Lake is great for paddling across a calm lake. 
Career Services
SCS Career Services
The School of Chemical Sciences Career Services office seeks to provide guidelines, resources, and opportunities to School of Chemical Sciences job seekers to help them achieve their career aspirations relevant to their academic interests and to facilitate and support connections between employers and those job seekers. Whether you are seeking a career in industry, higher education, or seeking to gain practical experience through a summer or semester internship, or co-op, we can help.
Download SCS Career Services Brochure
Grainger Engineering Career Services
Engineering Career Services (ECS) in the Grainger College of Engineering provides students and employers with career management services. Skilled at working with highly qualified students and maintaining strong ties with companies, ECS helps you explore careers and get connected with your dream companies. Whether you are beginning to research internships or are seeking a full-time job, the ECS team is your career search partner.
The Career Center at Illinois
The Career Center provides all Illinois students collaborative and innovative programs, services, and resources focused on career and professional development that educates and empowers them to become thriving professionals in the global community. The Career Center serves all students. in addition to career services staff in many colleges and departments—this network of Career Services offices actively collaborates to provide the best possible services to all University of Illinois students. The Career Center is nationally recognized for excellence in career services that empower students to connect their “Illinois experience” with their future aspirations. 
 
In-Person Visitor Information
We can't wait to welcome you to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign! We hope your visit helps you discover all that Illinois has to offer. Below we've addressed some frequently asked questions, but don't hesitate to contact us at chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu if you have any questions or concerns. 
Schedule and Faculty Meetings
Admitted students who are visiting March 10-12 can sign up for their Individual Faculty Meetings until noon on March 11; please note that meetings are available on a first-come, first-served basis. If the faculty member with whom you would like to meet is unavailable, please reach out to that faculty member directly to arrange another time to meet and discuss their work. 
Download March 10 - 12 Schedule
Frequently Asked Questions
When should I arrive and depart?
Please plan to arrive late afternoon to early evening on the Thursday of your recruiting weekend and plan to depart on Saturday afternoon. This will facilitate prompt check-in/check-out at the Illini Union Hotel. The ‘official’ recruiting events start on Friday morning; informal events are scheduled for Thursday evening. In case of weather-related emergencies, please do your best to work with our travel agency and the airline to catch the next available flight to minimize missing out on the scheduled events. 
What do I do if my flight is canceled and/or delayed for an extended period of time?
You should seek out an alternative method of transportation to campus. We strongly suggest Peoria Charter as they are the most direct and convenient option from the major Chicago airports. Greyhound or Amtrak are available at most nearby major airports with connecting flights to Champaign-Urbana, but the Chicago stations are not located near the airports and require an Uber or taxi ride downtown (18 miles). Ubers/taxis from Chicago are not recommended (3+ hour trip).
Who will book my travel?
 After confirming your visit with our office, we will connect you with our travel agency who will assist you in making your reservations. We require that you complete these within one week of accepting our offer to visit, and no later than February 9. We recommend flying into Champaign (CMI, Willard Airport) or taking a Peoria Charter bus from Chicago. Currently, only American Airlines flies directly to CMI.
What weekend expenses are covered by the department? 
The department will cover the cost of airline or bus travel, when you book through our designated travel agent, up to $500. The department will also cover on-campus meals and lodging during your visit. If you are within driving distance, we can reimburse mileage costs, based on Google maps mileage estimates from home to hotel. We will reimburse emergency lodging in the event of weather-related flight cancellations in cases where there is no other way of reaching the campus. Meals during travel are only reimbursable due to extenuating, emergent travel circumstances. Should you need overnight lodging due to flight cancellations, you should arrange to stay at the closest available hotel to your connecting airport at the most economical room rate. For O’Hare, this is Hilton Chicago O’Hare Airport (http://bit.ly/ORDHilton).
How do I get reimbursed for these emergency expenses?
Contact the Graduate Program Coordinator. You are required to submit all receipts (must be in your name and not paid for by anyone else) and provide an itemized itinerary clearly showing all expenses and how they were paid. Electronic documentation is acceptable provided it contains all the requisite information listed. 
What happens if I cancel my trip after everything has been arranged?
 Because we pay in advance for non-refundable tickets in good faith, we expect visitors to cancel their trips prior to the scheduled flight departure. Credit for the unused tickets will be reverted to the University of Illinois. Visitors are not authorized to use their canceled tickets for personal use at a later date. 
Pick-up from airport/bus stop:
When you land in Champaign-Urbana, a graduate student host will meet you at the airport and take you to the hotel and then escort you to Thursday evening events (itinerary and contact information will be sent closer to the recruiting weekend). If you take the Peoria Charter to Champaign-Urbana, you should debark at the Illinois Street Residence (ISR) Hall, located two blocks east of the hotel, and we will send someone to meet you to walk you to the hotel.
 
Virtual Visitor Information
While you couldn't be here in person, we hope that this page has given you more insight into all that Illinois has to offer you. We are excited to connect with you virtually and help you find the lab that will help you launch your career in chemical and biomolecular engineering. Below we've linked to some resources for our virtual weekend and addressed some frequently asked questions, but don't hesitate to contact us at chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu if you have any questions or concerns. 
Virtual Visitor Downloads and Faculty Meetings
Download our virtual visit schedule and instructions for using Slack and Gather.Town. We will also post the link to sign up for your individual faculty meetings; please note that faculty meetings are available on a first-come, first-served basis. We appreciate your patience. 
Download March 18-19 Schedule  Slack & Gather.Town Instructions/Maps
Frequently Asked Questions
What if I am experiencing technical difficulties?
We understand that you may have technical difficulties during the virtual graduate recruitment. If this is the case, please reach out to us at chbe-gradrecruitment@illinois.edu. We can provide you with presentation recordings, copies of lab posters that interest you, or help you reschedule your individual faculty meetings. 
What if a faculty member who I want to meet with is booked up?
Our faculty are excited to meet with you! If their faculty meeting schedule is booked up, we encourage you to reach out to them directly to find another time to meet. 
Can we meet with more than four professors?
If you are interested in more than four faculty members, we encourage students to reach out to schedule a time to meet with additional faculty members outside of the individual faculty meetings. 
Where are the links/passwords for these events?
All the links and passwords that you will need to participate in our virtual events are in the schedule, which can be downloaded above. Your invitation to join Slack will be emailed to you. 
Where do I go if I have a question or need help?
If you need help or assistance at any time, please reach out via Slack on the #askmeanything channel, which will have folks available to assist you throughout the virtual recruitment event. If you have a sensitive or private question, you can direct message the current graduate student volunteers—they are happy to provide you with candid feedback about our program and life in Champaign-Urbana to help you find the program that is the right fit for you. You can also email us at chbe-gradrecruitment@illinois.edu for general questions or assistance. 

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
