https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/graduate/research-symposium
Graduate Research Symposium | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Graduate Research Symposium
Every fall, the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and the Graduate Student Advisory Council host a Graduate Research Symposium. The symposium allows graduate students to present their work in the form of either a poster or an oral presentation. 
Research areas include a range of topics, such as nanotechnology, biotechnology, computational science, and energy applications. Invited judges are typically Illinois alumni from industry and academia who help us identify the best poster and oral presentations. The symposium also provides students with one-on-one opportunities to network with the judges.
2021 Graduate Research Symposium Winners 
Poster Presentation 
 
Oral Presentation 

Zhao Group
Guironnet/Kenis Groups
Kraft Group
Leckband/Kenis Groups

Diao Group

Kong Group
October7
Save the Date! 
2022 Graduate Research Symposium
Friday, October 7, 2021
 
Thank you to all our alumni judges, graduate students, and Graduate Student Advisory Council members who have made this event possible for two decades. 
Contact Us
Please reach out with any questions about this  event. 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
