https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/student-resources
Campus Resources | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Campus Resources
The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is committed to providing the resources, cultural centers, and support systems to ensure student success in the classroom and out. 
Mental Health and Wellness
Our campus created a centralized site to connect students, parents/families, faculty, and staff with services for mental health, wellness, access, and accommodation. We strive to provide supportive, judgment-free, and collaborative solutions specific to individuals and groups.
Learn More
Campus Offices and Resources
Our campus features a number of offices and resources dedicated to lead our campus toward an increasingly diverse and inclusive community that is open, just, and welcoming for all.
Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations
As part of the Office of Student Affairs, this office connects students with the cultural centers listed below, events and programs, additional resources, and links to report acts of intolerance.Learn more
Office of Diversity Equity and Access
Serves as a resource to campus units on issues such as accessibility and accommodations, affirmative action, discrimination and harassment prevention, and Title IX.
Learn more
Open Illinois
Provides information, resources, and guidance for undocumented, DACA, and those affected by immigration reform.
Learn more
Office of Minority Student Affairs
Academic mentoring and programs, tutoring, federal TRIO programs and services.
Learn more
Graduate College’s Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Internal and external fellowship support, programs (such as the Sloan University Center of Exemplary Mentoring), summer research opportunities, and more.
Learn more
Grainger College of Engineering Diversity Programs
The Grainger College of Engineering programs MERGE and SURGE are used to develop a diverse and highly motivated pool of engineers.
Learn more
Institute for Inclusion, Diversity, Equity & Access (IDEA)
The mission of the IDEA Institute is to support scholarship, innovation, collaboration, and leadership in the areas of inclusion, diversity, equity, and access at all levels: faculty, staff, students, and K-12 outreach/public engagement. IDEA priorities include:
Learn more

Cultural Resource Centers
Our campus is home to cultural and resource centers that serve our diverse community and foster a climate of respect, tolerance, and the free exchange of ideas. 
Bruce D. Nesbitt African American Cultural Center 
The mission of Bruce D. Nesbitt African American Cultural Center is to provide a network of programs and support services promoting the individual, social, cultural and academic well-being of Illinois’ African American students. Opened in fall 1969 in response to calls from students, the African American Cultural Center at Illinois was rededicated in 2004 to former Director Bruce D. Nesbitt, a trailblazer for opportunity and equality who inspired more than two decades of university students. BNAACC continues this work today as a vehicle for self-expression and leadership enhancement for students of African descent through workshops, seminars, and performing arts groups. Learn more
Asian American Cultural Center
The University of Illinois has one of the largest and most vibrant Asian American university communities in the Midwest, where 1 in 4 students is Asian American or Asian international. The Asian American Cultural Center promotes cross-cultural understanding of Asian American and Asian international experiences and provides educational and cultural support for Asians and Asian Americans in our university community. Opened in fall 2005, the Asian American Cultural Center provides the University of Illinois community with space to gather and share the diverse and rich cultures that are a part of the Asian American experience. 
Learn more
Diversity & Social Justice Education
Diversity & Social Justice Education provides courses, programs, workshops, and professional trainings to prepare Illinois students to work and live in a diverse global society. DiversityEd offers students, faculty, and staff opportunities to build their own capacity to promote critical thinking, compassion, and equity. 
Learn more
La Casa Cultural Latina
Since its founding in 1974, La Casa Cultural Latina has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to Latina/o students and the campus community, as well as local and global communities. La Casa reflects the diversity of Latina/o cultures and exemplifies el éxito Latino that shapes the Americas in our contemporary world. The mission of La Casa Cultural Latina is to promote a welcoming and dynamic atmosphere through the development of educational, cultural, socio-political, and social programs that lead to greater recruitment, retention, advancement, and empowerment of Latina/o students. 
Learn more
LGBT Resource Center
The mission of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Resource Center is to foster an environment that is open, safe, and inclusive for people of all sexualities and gender identities. The Center is a resource not only for the LGBT community but for the entire University community. It exists for anyone who is interested in learning about LGBT people, issues, and concerns. The LGBT Resource Center seeks to help in the efforts to address homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, and heterosexist attitudes and beliefs on the campus, and to work to make the environment safe and affirming for all students, faculty, staff, and LGBT students, faculty, and staff in particular.
Learn more
Native American House
The Native American House serves as a support and resource center for all students, faculty, staff and the community, providing programs and resources that allow people to expand their cultural and academic experiences at the University of Illinois. After nearly 15 years of Native student protests and lobbying efforts, the Native American House opened in 2002 with the mission to build a Native-centered learning community. All students, faculty, staff, and community members are welcomed and encouraged to participate in the many educational, cultural, and social programs tailored about Native American and Indigenous cultures, peoples, and current events.
Learn more
Women’s Resources Center
At the Women’s Resources Center, we aim to support and connect students by linking them with faculty, alumnae, staff, community leaders and other women students through programs, workshops, mentorship, meals, fun activities, and networking events. The Women’s Resources Center was established to empower women and strengthen alliances with men, offer opportunities for all students, including trans and gender non-conforming students, build leadership skills, challenge sexism, racism, heterosexism, ableism, and all forms of social oppression, and achieve greater gender equity and cultural diversity. We’re committed to creating community among students, student groups, and the University of Illinois. We’re committed to YOU! All genders are welcome at the Women’s Resources Center! 
Learn more
International Education
International Education enhances opportunities for students to engage with cultures from around the world. We promote deeper campus internationalization through supporting the success of international students, enhancing the global competencies of all students, and creating meaningful cultural exchange between international and domestic students.
Learn more
 
 
Career Services
SCS Career Services
The School of Chemical Sciences Career Services office seeks to provide guidelines, resources, and opportunities to School of Chemical Sciences job seekers to help them achieve their career aspirations relevant to their academic interests and to facilitate and support connections between employers and those job seekers. Whether you are seeking a career in industry, higher education, or seeking to gain practical experience through a summer or semester internship, or co-op, we can help.
Download SCS Career Services Brochure
Grainger Engineering Career Services
Engineering Career Services (ECS) in the Grainger College of Engineering provides students and employers with career management services. Skilled at working with highly qualified students and maintaining strong ties with companies, ECS helps you explore careers and get connected with your dream companies. Whether you are beginning to research internships or are seeking a full-time job, the ECS team is your career search partner.
The Career Center at Illinois
The Career Center provides all Illinois students collaborative and innovative programs, services, and resources focused on career and professional development that educates and empowers them to become thriving professionals in the global community. The Career Center serves all students. in addition to career services staff in many colleges and departments—this network of Career Services offices actively collaborates to provide the best possible services to all University of Illinois students. The Career Center is nationally recognized for excellence in career services that empower students to connect their “Illinois experience” with their future aspirations. 
We welcome your feedback! 
Share your comments or questions about these resources.
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
