https://chbe.illinois.edu/giving/give-now
Give Now | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Give Now
 
Your support matters.
Your gifts enable us to offer more student scholarships, fund student projects, provide outreach programs, assist with student travel to conferences, sponsor student-alumni networking events, bring industry experts to campus for lectures and advising, and much more. Thank you for investing in our department.
I would like my donation allocated to the following fund(s):
Department & Faculty Support
Chemical and Biomolecular Partners Fund Provides unrestricted support in areas with the greatest need, such as attracting and retaining faculty noted for their high-quality research and teaching.
Richard C. Alkire Professorship in Chemical Engineering Fund Supports the Richard C. Alkire Professorship in honor of Dr. Alkire, an emeritus professor.
Westwater Professorship Fund Supports the James W. Westwater Professorship in honor of one of our most distinguished faculty.
Student Support
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship FundProvides for student scholarships.
Undergraduate ProgramsSupports design teams, tutors, student groups and other programs.
Instructional Facility Renewal FundSupports instrumentation, remodeling and related expenses for ChBE instructional labs.
Graduate Student Legacy Fellowship FundProvides for graduate student fellowships in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering.
Harry G Drickamer Endowment FundFunds fellowships for graduate students in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Chemistry and Physics.
Hanratty Professional Development Fund Provides financial support for Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering graduate students traveling to professional meetings.


Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
