https://chbe.illinois.edu/research/faculty-research-profiles
Faculty Research Profiles | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Faculty Research Profiles
Our faculty are leading research efforts to ensure a brighter future for all. Learn more about their efforts on the electrochemical reduction of CO2 into value-added chemicals; water purification based on redox technologies; development of advanced biomaterials for regeneration; engineering plastic that is biodegradable and infinitely recyclable; and much more.
Pursues the fundamental understanding and control of multiscale molecular assembly processes to achieve sustainable manufacturing of electronic materials, energy devices, and therapeutic products.
Applies mechanistic and kinetic investigations of chemistry at surfaces to lead the design of more reactive and selective catalysts for atom-efficient activation and functionalization of small molecules to tackle challenges in environmental conservation and energy production.
Develops new catalysts and catalytic processes for the synthesis of new polymers with a focus on sustainability.
Pursues the fabrication, characterization, and testing of biomaterials for in vivo and in vitro tissue engineering applications.
Investigates geophysical fluid dynamics associated with evolution of meandering rivers; develops simulations for large scale systems of hyperbolic partial differential equations for petroleum reservoirs and geophysical transport processes; and investigates the micro-scale dynamics of complex fluids.
Pursues the design, fabrication, and testing of microchemical systems for applications in energy and biology. 
Pursues the synthesis, characterization, and processing of nanobiomaterials for diagnosis and therapies.
Develops and implements bioimaging, single cell analysis, and multivariate statistics techniques to address challenges in tissue engineering, viral infection and cell biology.
Investigates bio-interfaces and mechanotransduction using biophysical and surface analytical approaches.
Develops theoretical methods to facilitate high-fidelity computational predictions of heterogeneous catalysts and reaction mechanisms for renewable energy and chemicals production, using principles of quantum mechanics.
Studies rates and mechanisms of catalysis, nucleation, and crystal growth with rare events techniques from molecular simulation and quantum chemistry.
Applies systems engineering approaches to study biological problems associated with bacterial pathogenesis, inflammation, and biofuel production.
Investigates the fundamental physics behind time-dependent phenomena exhibited by soft matter under deformation for biomedical, energy, and environment applications.
Studies the dynamics of polymers, proteins, and soft materials using single-molecule techniques—a major goal is to understand how microscopic phenomena give rise to the emergent, macroscopic properties of soft materials.
Focuses on the control of atomic-scale defect behavior in semiconducting materials to make nanoscale devices of interest in energy, environmental, and microscale electronics applications.
Uses and develops both theoretical and computational tools to understand biophysical processes for applications in plant biology and human diseases.
Uses both theoretical and computational tools to tackle fundamental problems in polymer physics and develop design principles for bio-inspired soft materials.
Focuses on understanding fundamental phenomena in soft matter systems through the integration of empirical model development, statistical mechanics, applications of machine learning techniques, and simulations.
Develops advanced materials for molecularly selective separations and process intensification for applications in energy, environment, and chemical manufacturing.
Uses material chemistry approaches to the design of nanostructures for energy and biological applications.
Develops and applies synthetic biology, machine learning, and laboratory automation tools to engineer functionally improved or novel proteins, pathways, and genomes for biotechnological and biomedical applications; investigates the protein structure-function relationship, cell metabolism, and mechanisms of gene expression and regulation.

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
