https://chbe.illinois.edu/giving/corporate-partners
Corporate Partners | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Corporate Partners
Become a corporate partner
The University of Illinois is a leading public research institution home to talented faculty and students. Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering has a proud tradition of partnering with a variety of corporations from small firms to Fortune 500 companies in energy, human health, and consumer products industries.
We have more than 700 undergraduates and 90 graduate students of diverse backgrounds from around the globe. Our students are highly engaged on campus, participating in research and community outreach and organizing professional and educational events. 
Opportunities to Engage
In 2011 the Dow Chemical Company pledged more than $13 million to the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Dow provides support for graduate student fellows, start-up packages for new faculty hires, and sponsors research projects.
The department is pleased to collaborate with companies on research projects. Some of the companies our faculty have worked with include AbbVie, ExxonMobil, Toyota North America, Dow Chemical, and AmorePacific.
We are grateful to BP, CITGO, Phillips 66, DuPont, ExxonMobil and Rohm and Haas for supporting scholarships and awards for our undergraduate students. Dow Chemical, DuPont, and 3M and generously support fellowships for our outstanding graduate students.
Sponsorship of undergraduate programs are critically important to educating the next generation of chemical engineers. Such programs include the freshman design experience, Design Across the Curriculum courses, the senior course Unit Operations, where multiple experiments are conducted, and the senior capstone course, Process Design. Thanks to the companies who have contributed to these programs: BP, ChevronPhillips, Dow AgroSciences, LyondellBasell, Phillips 66, and Shell.
Thanks to their sponsorship of lectures, International Paper and the Parr Instrument Company have allowed the department to bring in world-renowned experts for research talks and engagement with students and faculty.
Next steps
Contact Department Head Paul Kenis to learn more about how your company can partner with our department.
More information
Check out the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Corporate Engagement 2019-2020 annual report here.
Our Corporate Partners 
 
Contact Us
Let us know if you have any questions.
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
