https://chbe.illinois.edu/giving/the-campaign-for-chemical-and-biomolecular-engineering
With Illinois Campaign | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
With Illinois Campaign
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering has always been at the center of excellent education. We are known around the world for outstanding undergraduate and graduate programs as well as for pioneering research. We are dedicated to thinking of new ways to solve the world’s toughest problems. And we do this together. With our distinguished faculty and ambitious students in partnership with our loyal alumni and donors.
Through the With Illinois Campaign our department is pursuing a goal of $15 million.
With Illinois Campaign
Recruiting a diverse, talented pool of students.
We are committed to recruiting and retaining exceptional students in our undergraduate and graduate programs. Your investment in graduate fellowships, specifically the Legacy Fellowship Fund, will provide students with the skills and tools they need to become leaders in academia and industry, while offering you the opportunity to honor your favorite Professor or Advisor. Supporting scholarships for undergraduates will help us attract and reward top students and reduce the burden of increasing student debt.
Recruiting and retaining prominent faculty.
Because our faculty are leaders in their field, they often receive enticing offers from competing institutions. Gifts and endowments for named scholar, professor, and chair positions enable us to recognize and retain current faculty members and also recruit new faculty members.
Providing state-of-the-art laboratories, classrooms, and technology.
To remain competitive, we must maintain and renovate facilities vital to education and research, such as the unit operations lab and the undergraduate learning center, a state-of-the-art interactive space for team-based projects. To accommodate the space needs of our growing faculty and their innovative research portfolios, we also are preparing to add a wing to Roger Adams Lab.
Supporting outreach efforts.
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering faculty and students are active in a variety of K-12 outreach efforts aimed at increasing diversity in the STEM pipeline. Your gift can sustain afterschool programs for underrepresented elementary students and summer camps for high school girls.
Make Your Gift to Illinois
Please select other and indicate to direct your donation to the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering.
Give Now

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
