https://chbe.illinois.edu/alumni/parr-lecture
Parr Lecture | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Parr Lecture
The Parr Lecture is named after Samuel Wilson Parr, the founder of chemical engineering at Illinois. A native of Granville, Illinois, Parr became professor of applied chemistry and head of industrial chemistry at Illinois in 1891.
Parr inaugurated the curriculum named “Chemical Engineering-for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering.” This curriculum was first listed in the University of Illinois Catalog for 1901-02 and has continued since. Under Parr’s leadership, the division of Chemical Engineering emerged, which later became the Department of Chemical Engineering.
He was a prolific author and made numerous discoveries. Parr developed an alloy—called Illium, made of nine different metals—that has powerful corrosion-resisting properties. He also invented the first simplified instrument for measuring the heating value of coal. The Parr Calorimeter and subsequent developments contributed significantly to the development of a market for the extensive reserves of bituminous coal in Illinois at a time when most believed that only eastern coal could be used for heating. The coking process for bituminous coal he developed was superior to any hitherto known. Responding to the interest in his new invention, Parr founded the Standard Calorimeter Company, later renamed the Parr Instrument Company. An early Parr Calorimeter can be viewed in the north lobby of Roger Adams Laboratory. The Parr Instrument Company, based in Moline, Illinois, continues its reputation for fine craftsmanship and outstanding engineering.
Thank you to the Parr Instrument Company, which sponsors the Parr Lecture.
Previous Parr Lecturers
2019: Sharon Glotzer | Engineering Entropy in Colloidal Matter
2018: David Sholl | Expanding the Chemical Palette for Reliable Adsorption-based Separations
2017: Keith Johnston (PhD ’81) | Helping Nanoparticles Reach Their Colloidal Potential
2016: Curtis W. Frank (PhD ’72) | Solid Matter at Interfaces

2015: Joan F. Brennecke  (PhD ’89) | Ionic Liquids for Post-Combustion CO2,” PhD
2014: Mark E. Davis | Fighting Cancer with Nanoparticle Medicines: The Nanoscale Matters!
 2013: Nicholas A. Peppas | New Frontiers in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences: Advanced Intelligent Hydrogels for Protein Delivery
2011: William F. Banholzer (PhD ’83) | The Future of Fuels and Feedstocks: Addressing Hype, Limitations and Research Strategies
2009: Frances H. Arnold | In the Light of Directed Evolution: Pathways of Protein Adaptation
2008: Dennis M. Houston (BS ‘74) | The Energy Challenge
2006: Alice P. Gast | Proteins and Enzymes at Membrane Interfaces
2003: Robert A. Brown | Chemical Engineering in the 21st Century: Challenges for the Evolution of the Discipline
2002: Steven L. Miller (BS ’67) | The Crucible of Change







Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
