https://chbe.illinois.edu/research
Research | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Research
At Illinois, we are advancing the frontiers of catalysis and surface chemistry, biomolecular engineering and soft materials. In our world-class facilities, faculty and students collaborate on experimental and computational research in an environment that fosters innovation.
Energy and Sustainability
Learn More
Biomolecular Engineering
Biomolecular engineering and biotechnology have revolutionized the pharmaceutical and agricultural industries and are now playing increasingly important roles in energy, chemical, food, and pharmaceutical industries.
Learn More
Soft Matter and Advanced Materials
Soft materials such as foods, biofluids, personal care products, polymers, oils, paints and coatings and cements undergo intervals of fast flow or strong deformation during their formation, processing, handling, or transport.
Learn More
Computational Engineering
Several research groups in our department are involved in scientific computing and modeling of complex chemical and biomolecular systems with the goal of elucidating their underlying design principles.
Learn More
Facilities and Services
Our department has access to a number of excellent facilities, shops, and services to facilitate our cutting-edge research efforts.
Learn More
Institutes and Collaborations
Our highly collaborative faculty and students are involved in numerous cross-campus and interdisciplinary collaborations.
Learn More

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
