https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/graduate/gsac
Graduate Student Advisory Council | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Graduate Student Advisory Council
The Graduate Student Advisory Council (GSAC) is the representative body of graduate students that acts as a liaison between the graduate students and the department administration. We organize social, professional, outreach, and recruitment events including the Graduate Research Symposium, professional networking, welcome week, recruitment weekends, Toys for Tots, and the annual Food Drive. We provide bonding opportunities for students and foster a sense of community.

President
Lauren Endress
Faculty Advisor: Hyunjoon Kong
Research Topic: Thermal energy harvesting devices for electrical energy storage
Hobbies: Grabbing coffee, long walks, reading
Alma Mater: Augustana College
Why Illinois? "I needed to be in a program where I felt like I was challenged academically but also welcomed into a supportive and exciting community."
LinkedIn Profile

External Vice President / Co-Symposium Chair
Richa Ghosh
Faculty Advisor: David Flaherty
Research: Electrocatalytic oxidation of biomass-derived substrates
Hobbies: Hiking, martial arts, reading, FaceTiming her dogs
Alma Mater: University of California, Los Angeles
Why Illinois? "The supportive community and collaborative research!"
LinkedIn Profile

Internal Vice President / Treasurer
Kyle Timmer
Faculty Advisor: Brendan Harley
Research: Biomaterials for improved tissue regeneration
Hobbies: Board games, hiking, rock climbing, D&D
Alma Mater: Calvin College
Why Illinois? "In addition to the research being done, I was really drawn to the community I saw in the department when I visited."
LinkedIn Profile

Communications Chair
Rachel Gaines
Faculty Advisor: Paul Kenis
Research: Flow electrooxidations for fuel and chemical production
Hobbies: Working out, macrame, browsing Zillow
Alma Mater: Appalachian State University
Why Illinois? "The department's sustainability focus drew me in; the culture made it easy to stay. I knew from day one that I would be a valued member of the ChBE community."
LinkedIn Profile

International Chair / Co-Symposium Chair
Jarom Sederholm
Faculty Advisor: Paul V. Braun (MatSE)
Research: Electrodeposition methods for cathodes in fully recyclable batteries
Hobbies: Cooking, baking, lifting
Alma Mater: Brigham Young University
Why Illinois? "UIUC is an amazing school with chances to study anything you'd like while maintaining an extremely friendly environment."
LinkedIn Profile

Professional Development Chair
Gunnar Thompson
Faculty Advisor: Brendan Harley
Research: Microdroplet assemblies of hematopoietic stem cells
Hobbies: Ballroom dancing, woodworking, playing piano/guitar, and video games
Alma Mater: University of Wisconsin–Madison
Why Illinois? "Departmental culture and making connections with students who seemed to genuinely enjoy each other."
LinkedIn Profile

Outreach Chair
Darien Raymond
Faculty Advisor: Xiao Su
Research: Crystalline faradaic materials for critical element recovery
Hobbies: Reading, writing, playing music, video games
Alma Mater: South Dakota School of Mines
Why Illinois? "I chose UIUC for the vibrant community, collaborative environment, and amazing resources available for grad students."
LinkedIn Profile
Past Graduate Student Advisory Councils 
2020-2021

President: Victoria Kriuchkovskaia
External VP: Tianhao Yu 
Internal VP/Treasurer: David Potts 
International Chair/Symposium Chair 1: Azzaya Khasbaatar 
Symposium Chair 2: Aashutosh Boob 
Outreach Chair: Yash Kamble 
Webmaster: Jemin Jeon 
Professional Development Chair: Jiachun Shi 
2019-2020

President: Chris Torres
Vice President: Lili Bello
Treasurer: Danielle Meyer
Secretary: Caroline Li
Webmaster/Symposium Chair: Armin Shayesteh Zadeh
Outreach/Symposium Chair: Aliki Kolliopoulos

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
