https://chbe.illinois.edu/feature-profiles/41140
Jayne Allen | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Jayne Allen
Jayne Allen is a senior studying chemical engineering with a minor in business. She is passionate about sustainability and international affairs. In her free time, you can find her reading, painting, and finding new music to listen to. Here, she describes her virtual global experience, which was supported by a Life + Career Design scholarship that helps enable students’ experiences in professional work with the goal of advancing their career readiness.
You may have heard of an opportunity thrown around called a virtual global experience. In the age of the new normal, the words "virtual" and "global" are describing the same professional endeavor!
Virtual global experiences are virtual internships and research appointments that LAS International Programs miraculously birthed so that students can acquire global work experience from home. I chose to explore my options with VACorps, an internship program based in Cape Town, South Africa. My project is opening my eyes to the debt crisis in African countries, and I am working directly with employees of AFRODAD, the African Forum and Network on Debt and Development, based in Zimbabwe. Through my internship, I am gaining:
To sum up my thoughts, my virtual global experience has opened doors for me that I never imagined. I am passionate about my project, and I am grateful for the coworkers that have been so excited to work with me. I will hold this experience dear, and I recommend anyone who is further interested to check out a virtual global experience. I say, go for it!

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
