https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/graduate/financial-support
Financial Support | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Financial Support
Funding your graduate degree
Students who remain in good standing, and continue to make satisfactory academic progress in the program based on their annual reviews, are guaranteed full financial support for the duration of their studies in the program.  This support includes a stipend that easily covers living expenses in the Champaign-Urbana area, paid tuition, and costs of research and supplies. Students are typically required to serve as a teaching assistant during three semesters of their time on campus.
Teaching Assistantships
Graduate students work as teaching assistants for up to four semesters, typically during their second and third years. These appointments involve assisting in teaching chemical engineering courses, managing discussions or lab sections, grading, etc.
Research Assistantships
Our Ph.D. students are appointed as research assistants to work on their thesis projects for the remaining semesters. A student may serve as a teaching assistant and research assistant within the same semester.
Additional forms of financial support
A wide variety of fellowships are available from our department, university, corporate partners as well as federal, state, and private sources. The Graduate College Fellowships Office provides assistance for finding internal and external fellowship opportunities.
Fellowship Finder     ChBE Fellowship Recipients
National Fellowships
Our students are highly competitive applicants for national fellowships. Our domestic prospective graduate students are encouraged to compete for these fellowships; international applicants are urged to seek fellowship support from their governments.
DEI Fellowships
The Sloan University Center of Exemplary Mentoring broadens participation in advanced engineering, physical and mathematical science careers, and strengthens the talent pool in these fields while increasing equitable opportunities in the U.S. The grant supports doctoral students underrepresented in STEM. In addition to financial support, Sloan Scholars receive guidance from a team of mentors.
Learn More
This award recognizes outstanding incoming graduate students in The Grainger College of Engineering, who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents, plan to obtain a doctoral degree on a full-time basis, and come from communities that are underrepresented in engineering. The SURGE Fellowship is a 5-year fellowship program that combines financial support with opportunities for networking and community building.
Learn More
The Mavis Academy was developed to train the next generation of great engineering faculty. Fellows participate in a series of workshops, seminars, and activities that cover various aspects of an academic career. Workshop themes include describing life as a faculty member, writing cover letters and CVs, preparing for campus interviews, and defining and achieving success as a faculty member.
Learn More
Questions? More to add?
Please let us know if you have any questions or information that we should add to this page. We're here to help! 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
