https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/graduate/student-life
Student Life | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Student Life
Life on the Silicon Prairie
Urbana-Champaign is a place where people come together to bring big ideas to life. We're home to the tech incubator University of Illinois Research Park and surrounded by some of the richest farmland in the world. Our campus community is home to a wide range of exceptional research and scholarship, but what truly sets us apart is a collaborative environment that leads to groundbreaking discovery, innovation, and partnerships that invite new ways of thinking and working. 
Unique "Micro-Urban" Community
Urbana-Champaign is on an accelerated development track, emerging as a leading example of a "micro-urban" community—a population center of less than 250,000 with a set of highly desirable attributes commonly found in larger cities. Our vibrant arts/culture/nightlife scene, internationally diverse population, strong technology base, and commitment to societal issues coupled with a world-class university make this an ideal place to live, study, and work. Plus, we are just a few hours away from three metropolises: Chicago, St. Louis, and Indianapolis.
Better Living, Less Hassle
Learn More

CHBE’s Cultural Resource Guide to Champaign-Urbana was created by our Graduate Student Advisory Council (GSAC) to highlight some of the food and experiences that our community has to offer.Download
Explore our campus and community online:

Housing Tour Video Series
Our current graduate students open their doors to show you what housing options are available in Champaign-Urbana. Take a peek at how far your hard-earned money can go in our community.
Student Organizations
Our graduate students are engaged in several student organizations and activities including the Graduate Student Advisory Council that organizes our graduate research symposium and various events to help knit together our graduate student body.  
Find Your Community


Lab Tour Video Series
Tag along on a virtual tour of several ChBE labs to get a feel for the spaces and people within our department.
Check out the Alma Cam! 
Wondering what it looks like on our campus right now? Check out live footage of our most beloved statue on campus, Alma Mater.
Watch Now

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
