https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/undergraduate/student-resources
Student Resources | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Student Resources
We are committed to student success and providing resources to help our undergraduate students navigate the chemical and biomolecular engineering curriculum. Learn more information about opportunities and supplies furnished by the department and our generous donors to help you attain your goals during your time at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign—and beyond.  
Shell Tutoring Program  Learning Centers  Career Services
Shell Tutoring Program

The Shell Tutoring Program provides peer tutors to help our undergraduate students master core course material in an open, informal setting. Each semester, the department hires 10 to 18 undergraduate student tutors. 
Fall 2021 Courses with Tutor Support: 
Meet with a Shell Tutor
“We are grateful to Shell for providing this tremendous resource for students to complement discussion sections and TA office hours,” said Department Head Paul Kenis. "Our alumni have shared that this program helped them succeed in our chemical engineering program.”  
“These student tutors are developing strong leadership skills for their futures as they grow as effective mentors, while their peers are able to learn from them to excel in a field with ample opportunities to make a difference,” said Chris Beuerle, Shell lead for engineering recruitment at the University of Illinois.
"This type of collaborative environment and the level of dedication put forth by all those involved aligns with Shell’s values," said Andrew Lee, also a Shell lead for engineering recruitment. "It is just one example of why Shell continues to count UIUC among its core schools to find talent."
Learning Centers
ChBE Learning Centers
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering offers several Learning Centers for undergraduate student use. Instructions for requesting technical assistance for the Learning Centers are posted on the wall; laminated instruction cards are also provided for each computer workstation. 
308 Noyes Lab features 12 computers, two printers, study areas, and whiteboards.
211 Noyes Lab includes eight workstations and one printer.
Undergraduate students receive a $30 credit to print up to 300 pages per semester at these facilities. If you print more than 300 pages, a charge of $0.10/per page is applied to your student account at the end of each semester. You may check your print count at any time and as often as you need; open the shortcut on the Desktop called “PaperCut Balance” and log on with your NetID and password. 
Chemistry Learning Center (CLC)
The Chemistry Learning Center (CLC) is a centralized location where all undergraduates enrolled in general chemistry can receive help with homework, meet with teaching assistants and connect with other students taking the same courses.  
All CLC services have been temporarily moved online for the safety of students and CLC staff. Instead, visit the Virtual CLC to join the Chemistry Learning Piazza or stop by drop-in Zoom office hours to have your general chemistry questions answered by CLC TAs.
Access Virtual CLC
Career Services
SCS Career Services
The School of Chemical Sciences Career Services office seeks to provide guidelines, resources, and opportunities to School of Chemical Sciences job seekers to help them achieve their career aspirations relevant to their academic interests and to facilitate and support connections between employers and those job seekers. Whether you are seeking a career in industry, higher education, or seeking to gain practical experience through a summer or semester internship, or co-op, we can help.
Download SCS Career Services Brochure
Grainger Engineering Career Services
Engineering Career Services (ECS) in the Grainger College of Engineering provides students and employers with career management services. Skilled at working with highly qualified students and maintaining strong ties with companies, ECS helps you explore careers and get connected with your dream companies. Whether you are beginning to research internships or are seeking a full-time job, the ECS team is your career search partner.
The Career Center at Illinois
The Career Center provides all Illinois students collaborative and innovative programs, services, and resources focused on career and professional development that educates and empowers them to become thriving professionals in the global community. The Career Center serves all students. in addition to career services staff in many colleges and departments—this network of Career Services offices actively collaborates to provide the best possible services to all University of Illinois students. The Career Center is nationally recognized for excellence in career services that empower students to connect their “Illinois experience” with their future aspirations. 

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
