https://chbe.illinois.edu/giving/legacy-fund
Legacy Fellowship Fund | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Legacy Fellowship Fund
 
Honor your Advisor.Leave a Legacy.
The Legacy Fellowship Fund for Graduate Students
The University of Illinois Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering has a rich history of legendary faculty who have inspired, challenged, and encouraged students for more than 100 years.
The Legacy Fellowship Fund is an opportunity to honor those who mentored you and motivated you in the lecture halls and laboratories of Illinois. It’s also an opportunity to celebrate your own accomplishments and leave your legacy at Illinois.
At a time of dwindling state support and rising costs of recruiting and retaining world-class faculty and maintaining top-notch facilities, your support of graduate education is critical to ensuring the tradition of excellence at Illinois continues. As federal funding for research becomes more uncertain, gifts from alumni and friends become more important than ever. Your financial support will sustain our outstanding research portfolio and maximize our global impact.
Competition for the best graduate students is fierce, and it is vital we bring the best to Illinois. Your investment will help provide them with the skills and tools they need to become leaders in industry and academia.
Download Brochure
Support Our Legacy Fund
 Learn more about the different ways to support the Legacy Fellowship Fund. We can work with individuals or groups of donors on how to best support this campaign. You can contribute to the general fund for graduate fellowships, support a specific fellowship in honor of your advisor, or establish a fellowship in your name.
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
