https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/undergraduate/admitted-student
Undergraduate Admitted Student Information | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Undergraduate Admitted Student Information
Undergraduate Admitted Student Event
Join us to meet with faculty, staff, and current students in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering to learn more about our program firsthand! Our final Illini Day will be held virtually at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, April 28, 2022. Sign up by April 24. 
Register for Admitted First-Year Illini Day
“I chose chemical engineering because I wanted to do something that enabled me to make as great an impact as possible on society by using my interest in chemistry and mathematics. Naturally, chemical engineering is quite powerful, and chemical engineers have changed so many peoples’ lives with innovation and ingenuity. The University of Illinois is a unique place where you are given an enormous amount of freedom to explore all of your interests. The opportunities are all there—it’s just up to you to find them. Whether it be through talking to people from all walks of life or traveling to new countries, every moment I’ve had at Illinois provided its own unique adventure." — Adeel Afshar
Congratulations again on your admission to Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign! This is a well-deserved achievement, and we are excited to welcome you to our community of change-makers.  
Ranked #8 by U.S. News and World Report, our undergraduate program emphasizes transforming you into an outstanding problem solver through learning and applying fundamental chemical engineering knowledge in real-world design projects, undergraduate research opportunities, and hands-on internships/co-ops that lead to job offers. 
At Illinois, you can join forces with our world-class faculty on research to create sustainable local water supplies, develop infinitely recyclable plastic, improve biomaterials for bone regeneration, and transform carbon dioxide from the atmosphere into useful products—and much more. 
Our students have unparalleled access to resources (and scholarships) through our department, the School of Chemical Sciences, the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, and The Grainger College of Engineering. Our academic advisors will partner with you to create a targeted plan to reach your goals and guide you throughout your academic journey. The SCS Career Services office will connect you with internships, co-ops, and job opportunities.
Last year, 97% of our graduates reported securing their first choice destination after graduation. Our alumni can be found reducing costs at production facilities and building reactors to manufacture new materials. They’ve been instrumental in developing products like Tide (Procter & Gamble), Cheerios (General Mills), and Cottonelle tissue (Kimberly-Clark) as well as next-generation solar panels, optical materials for electronics, and therapeutics to eliminate cancer. With a degree in chemical engineering from Illinois, you will be ready to make your mark in the world! 
>>> Accept your admission >>>
I can't wait to see you achieve your potential at Illinois! 
Professor Paul KenisElio Eliakim Tarika Endowed Chair and Department HeadDepartment of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 
“Take advantage of all the opportunities around you—go to office hours, form study groups, join clubs, and go to events with friends. There is so much out there for you if you just look for it, and seemingly small interactions can have a big impact on your career and success here. I am following the biomolecular path, so I am interested in pharmaceuticals and medical research. I work in Dr. Brendan Harley’s tissue engineering lab as an undergraduate research assistant, and I have gotten to learn a lot more about the human body and how it repairs itself.” — Megan Shamsi
Undergraduate Opportunities and Resources

Research Opportunities
Our students are collaborating with world-class faculty to lead independent research projects (for course credit). 
Start Here →

Student Organizations
UIUC offers the most student organizations to help you find your community and opportunities to thrive.
Start Here →

Undergraduate Resources
From tutoring to Career Services, we provide the resources you need to be successful at Illinois and beyond. 
Start Here →
“I enjoyed chemistry and physics in high school, so I wanted to study something that applied those skills. I wasn’t sure what I wanted to pursue as my profession yet, so I loved that ChBE was widely applicable to many industries and gave me some time to explore which field to go into. I love the ChBE community and having supportive professors and classmates. It is also one of the best programs in the country, and I feel like I have many opportunities through the program here.” — Chikako Barnes
Frequently Asked Questions
 
Who will help me plan and register for my first semester of classes?
The School of Chemical Sciences (SCS) Academic Advisors will meet individually with all incoming students to discuss their interests, goals, and plans for their first semester at Illinois. Students can begin signing up for New Student Registration in March. We recommend that students sign up for New Student Registration as early as possible and complete all necessary tasks (placement exams and online orientations) before their appointment. SCS Advising will email about 1-2 weeks before your registration appointment with details to help you prepare.
New Student Registration
What technology will I need/have access to? 
Various computer labs, maker spaces, and printing stations can be found around campus. Students in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering also have access to computer labs in 211 & 308 Noyes Lab (off of the main quad). We recommend that students purchase a personal computer and download the Microsoft Office Suite (available for free at the Illinois Webstore). Either a PC or a MAC should be sufficient for your needs.
Interested in professional programs such as medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, or law? 
Health Professions Advisors at The Career Center assist pre-health students in preparing for the application process to health professional schools. The office provides information, resources, and insight to assist you in exploring the various health professions, identifying hands-on experiences in the health field, and learning how to become a competitive applicant.
Career Center Pre-Health Advising
Illinois also has an excellent Pre-law Advising staff to help students prepare and apply for law school. 
Pre-law Advising
What academic supports and resources are available for my classes?
Our faculty and teaching assistants are engaged and available to meet with you during office hours—which are dedicated times that you can stop in to ask your instructor's questions. The department also offers peer tutoring for the program's core chemical engineering courses.
Free tutoring resources available on campus:
Who should I contact with questions about my roommate or housing?
If you have questions about housing choices, assignments, or roommates, please contact University Housing. 
How can I find my community on campus?
There are so many different communities and ways to get involved at Illinois! We recommend that students explore a variety of professional and more social student organizations. Many of our students are members of AICHE (American Institute of Chemical Engineers) and/or ACS (American Chemical Society) You can also search Involved@Illinois for many other registered student organizations (RSOs) online or take advantage of the activities and support offered by the many cultural and resource houses at Illinois. 
If you have any other questions, contact SCS Advising at scs-advising@illinois.edu. 
“I love the small-school feel of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering while being part of a large campus and all the opportunities it offers. Everyone in the program is close, like a family. ChBE does a great job of including everyone. The professors are accessible, and there are lots of student organizations, so you can be as involved as much or as little as you want.”  — Mikaela Dressendorfer
Explore the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Get to know the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and what this campus has to offer through these virtual tours and guides. 

What is life like at UIUC?
Ever wonder what it’s like being a first-generation college student, a woman in computer science, a Big Ten football player, a student entrepreneur, or a performing musician? Join our host Alex and 11 star students at UIUC as they talk about extracurricular activities, majors, studying abroad, life after college, and advice for current and prospective students! Do you want to know what life is like at the University of Illinois? What our students are passionate about? What they do, and why? Stay tuned.
Looking to see campus? You're in the right place. Each student will greet you in a place important to them on a tour of journeys at the University of Illinois. The college tour isn't a traditional campus tour, but you'll see what kind of places on campus matter to each person we talk to.
If you’re hesitant to attend college or wondering how to enrich your college experience to launch your career, these students will inspire you to courageously pursue your goals and passions. Dream big, Illini!
Tour the UIUC Quad
The University of Illinois Urbana Champaign Quad, main quad, or main quadrangle, is at the heart of campus. It is one of the most breathtakingly beautiful spaces on any college campus! Located in the center of campus, the Quad is surrounded by historic buildings on every side, including the student-friendly Illini Union to the north and the regal Foellinger Auditorium to the south. It's beautiful, inclusive, and a welcoming space for all Illini to share. 

University of Illinois Hyperlapse
This timelapse/hyperlapse video was shot by members of Champaign Photography. Check out scenes from across our gorgeous campus. 

Alma Mater Cam
See what campus looks like right this moment with this live stream of the Alma Mater at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign! Alma Mater is a beloved statue created by alumnus and sculptor Lorado Taft. 

University Guide Magazine
This full-color, 52-page magazine offers University content and general campus information, including a campus map.
Download University Guide
Accept your admission now! 
We can't wait to welcome you to Illinois this fall and count you among the change-makers in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering.
>>> Accept your admission >>>

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
