https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/outreach/food-drive
Food Drive | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Food Drive
Food Drive Challenge
Each year, the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering—in partnership with the ChBE Graduate Students Advisory Council (GSAC)—hosts a food drive to benefit the Eastern Illinois Foodbank.
The Eastern Illinois Foodbank exists to alleviate hunger in eastern Illinois by providing a reliable source of food for the hungry through cooperation with a network of food pantries and agencies. The Foodbank acquires millions of pounds of food and grocery product through purchase or donation and distributes it across our network of more than 160 feeding programs.
The annual ChBE Food Drive Challenge is a competition between research groups for the chance to win bragging rights and earn the right to hold the perpetual trophy for the next year. In addition, each donation grants entry to a charity raffle with prizes from local restaurants.
2021 Food Drive results: 
The total amount donated was $2833.40 or 8499 meals.
“The Su group was very excited about the event, and jumped in with 110 percent effort as an opportunity to make a difference and get everyone together in a team outreach event!” said Xiao Su, a chemical and biomolecular engineering professor. “We are happy to contribute to our community, and also represent our department.”
Eastern Illinois Foodbank
The EIF is working to feed the hungry in a 17-county area of Eastern Illinois, serving as the primary food source for food pantries, soup kitchens, homeless shelters, and other programs. Champaign County’s poverty rate is greater than 20 percent, and one out of seven individuals in Eastern Illinois struggle with hunger, including one in five children. 
More Information

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
