https://chbe.illinois.edu/about
About | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
About
Mission & Vision
The department’s mission is to improve the human prospect through the study and practice of chemical engineering by engaging in education, research, economic development, and service to the profession and society. Our vision is to distinguish ourselves through sterling technical and educational endeavors that help us consciously conceive new ways to benefit an increasingly complex and integrated world.
Exceptional Education
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois is known around the world for its outstanding undergraduate and graduate programs. A hallmark of our undergraduate experience is an emphasis on design projects, undergraduate research opportunities, and internships/co-ops that lead to job offers. Our alumni include many legendary leaders in academia and industry.
Our department is a unit within the School of Chemical Sciences in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, which evolved from the Department of Chemistry as an applied science. The department has close ties to The Grainger College of Engineering, a top-ranked engineering school in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Our students get the best of both worlds, taking advantage of opportunities within both colleges. 

ContactOur contact page can connect you with our departmental contacts. 

CalendarDiscover upcoming events—including lectures and seminars—in the department.

CareersCheck out opportunities to join our department and add to our community. 
Facts & Rankings
We are a global leader for chemical engineering education and research—as reflected by our facts and rankings. We are committed to providing an elite education that translates to career success.  
Learn More
Diversity 
We believe that a diverse workforce is more productive, creative, and adept at solving complex challenges. We're training future global leaders and recognize that we as a department should strive to reflect the world we serve. 
Learn More
Outreach
We are dedicated to recruiting the next generation of chemical engineers who will help shape sustainable processes to better our society and the world. 
Learn More
History
Our long-held reputation for excellence dates back to 1901 when our discipline was founded by Samuel Parr—making ours one of the oldest chemical engineering programs in the nation.
Learn More
We're accredited. 
The Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering undergraduate program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission based on consideration of the program’s educational objectives and outcomes, which assures that our program meets the expectations for training professional chemical and biomolecular engineers. 
More Information

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
