https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/outreach
Outreach | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Outreach
Creating a pipeline to STEM success
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois supports outreach opportunities for students of all ages and backgrounds to benefit our program participants as well as our students and faculty. 
We create and encourage outreach programs to expand and diversify the STEM pipeline from elementary through graduate school and beyond.
St. Elmo Brady STEM Academy is an after-school program established by the department that empowers middle school youth who identify as Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) to become the next generation of scientists, engineers, and mathematicians.
WYSE Summer Camps at the Grainger College of Engineering are designed to provide STEM-interested students the opportunity to experience advanced curricula at one of the best engineering schools in the nation and the world. The camps provide exposure to different areas of engineering through demonstrations, classroom presentations, hands-on activities, and interactions with various students, staff, and professors in those fields.
SpHERES is a program that is targeted to rising juniors or seniors at Champaign-Urbana high schools who are interested in careers merging interests in biology and engineering. Students will conduct research in one of several labs—ranging from Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Neuroscience, Bioengineering, Micro & Nanotechnology Laboratory, and Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. 
Multicultural Engineering Recruitment for Graduate Education (MERGE) invites a group of prospective graduate students, including women and people from diverse cultural backgrounds and all physical abilities, to explore programs in The Grainger College of Engineering.
We also attend meetings held by the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science, and other DEI student organizations to recruit graduate students. 
St. Elmo Brady Academy
The St. Elmo Brady Academy (SEBA) is an outreach program that encourages middle school youth from underserved backgrounds to pursue STEM careers. SEBA was founded by former chemical and biomolecular engineering lecturer Jerrod Henderson. Learn more about this program and download our outreach activities for your own use. 
Learn More
Check out the 'Engineer Guy'
Our department is home to the Engineer Guy YouTube channel with over a million subscribers and nearly seventy million views. Engineer Guy creator and professor Bill Hammack is a master of science communications, known around the world his videos that delve into the engineering principles behind everything from the engineering behind LCD monitors to ballpoint pens. 
Learn More

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
