https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/accreditation
Accreditation | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Accreditation
The undergraduate program in chemical and biomolecular engineering at Illinois is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET.
With ABET accreditation, students, employers and the society we serve can be confident that a program meets the quality standards that produce graduates prepared to enter a global workforce.
About ABET
The undergraduate program in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University Illinois Urbana-Champaign is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. This accreditation includes consideration of the program’s educational objectives and outcomes and assures that this program meets the expectations for training as a professional chemical and biomolecular engineer.
Department Mission Statement 
We have designed our undergraduate educational program with the goal of educating leaders who will have a deep understanding of engineering fundamentals and are able to apply this knowledge to the management of complex systems with particular attention to the chemical process and product industries. We believe that our students will be best served by our program providing them with a foundation on which to build careers through life-long learning and by teaching students how to learn. This foundation is, therefore, based on the key concepts of engineering while providing the students with the training to rapidly apply their knowledge to solve problems and develop relevant solutions.
Program Educational Objectives
Program educational objectives are broad statements that describe the career and professional accomplishments that the program is preparing graduates to achieve within a few years of graduation:
Obtain positions in industry, government, or pursue advanced degrees
Work in team environments to solve problems and effectively communicate results
Lead projects in industry, government, or academia
Improve their technical background and expertise through further training and/or formal education
Student Outcomes
Student outcomes are statements that describe what students are expected to know and be able to do by the time of graduation. These relate to the skills, knowledge and behaviors that students acquire in their matriculation through the program. In support of the program educational objectives listed above, we document the following student outcomes throughout our curriculum:
An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
 
Enrollment and Degrees Awarded
 
 
 
Accreditation Disclosure
The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign’s Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering satisfies the educational requirements for engineering licensure or certification in all of the 55 U.S. states and jurisdictions. Find your state’s requirements, resources, and contact information. You are encouraged to contact the appropriate licensing agency for your location, or wherever you desire to be licensed or certified, to seek information and additional guidance. Please be aware that there may be licensure or certification requirements in addition to an academic program’s curriculum.
This disclosure is being made in compliance with federal regulation 34 CFR §668.43 and the State Authorization and Reciprocity Agreements Manual.

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
