https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/undergraduate/transfer-students
Transfer Students | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Transfer Students
Pursue a bachelor’s degree in Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Students can transfer to ChBE from another department, college, or university. We're excited to welcome you into our program. 
Transferring from another program at the Univerity of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
In order to transfer into ChBE, you must apply to the department and obtain departmental permission. The department will make an evaluation based on the following:
Start Here
General Education Requirements
Admission requirements for transfer include completion of equivalent transfer coursework to the following University of Illinois courses, which must be successfully completed prior to the desired term of entry. 
Sixteen hours of approved general education electives are required. This must include at least six hours in social perspectives or behavioral sciences and at least six hours in literature and the arts or historical and philosophical perspectives. A current list of approved courses that may be used to satisfy this general education requirement is available in the ChBE Undergraduate Office or in the Academic Catalog. If you have more than six hours in either category, the excess will be counted as other Humanities or Social Science hours. More information about “General Education" requirements can be found on the Course Explorer website.
Disclaimer
Due to the specialized nature of the chemical and biomolecular engineering curriculum, junior-level transfer students typically require a total of five or six semesters on our campus to graduate. 
Contact Us
Do you need more information about how to transfer to our program? We're here for you! 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
