https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/undergraduate
Undergraduate Program | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Undergraduate Program
Curriculum Information
Our curriculum provides two areas of concentration: chemical engineering and biomolecular engineering. Each area is based on a strong fundamental understanding of chemical engineering; the biomolecular concentration’s technical electives focus more on bio-applied processing and technology.
Four-Year Plan  Technical Electives Dates and Deadlines Student Handbook
Academic Advisors
Academic Advisers in the School of Chemical Sciences assist students on course selection and guide them through their field of studies. They also ensure that our students meet all degree requirements and help with registration issues, declaring a minor, etc. We encourage students to first meet with their academic advisors; however, your faculty advisor can provide guidance on career planning or graduate school; your academic advisor can help you identify your faculty advisor to schedule a consultation. 
Find Your Advisor Email SCS Advisors
Academic Catalog
The Academic Catalog is the official listing of courses, programs, and degree requirements for students. It also includes suggested sequences.
Degree Requirements     
Course Explorer 
The Course Explorer lists the schedule of classes by term, plus a database of general education requirements in addition to other resources.
CHBE Courses 
Career Services
SCS Career Services
The School of Chemical Sciences Career Services office seeks to provide guidelines, resources, and opportunities to School of Chemical Sciences job seekers to help them achieve their career aspirations relevant to their academic interests and to facilitate and support connections between employers and those job seekers. Whether you are seeking a career in industry, higher education, or seeking to gain practical experience through a summer or semester internship, or co-op, we can help.
Download SCS Career Services Brochure
Grainger Engineering Career Services
Engineering Career Services (ECS) in the Grainger College of Engineering provides students and employers with career management services. Skilled at working with highly qualified students and maintaining strong ties with companies, ECS helps you explore careers and get connected with your dream companies. Whether you are beginning to research internships or are seeking a full-time job, the ECS team is your career search partner.
The Career Center at Illinois
The Career Center provides all Illinois students collaborative and innovative programs, services, and resources focused on career and professional development that educates and empowers them to become thriving professionals in the global community. The Career Center serves all students. in addition to career services staff in many colleges and departments—this network of Career Services offices actively collaborates to provide the best possible services to all University of Illinois students. The Career Center is nationally recognized for excellence in career services that empower students to connect their “Illinois experience” with their future aspirations. 
Undergraduate Forms and Downloads
Independent Undergraduate Research
Students pursuing research can apply for course credit through FormBuilder. 
Access FormBuilder
Undergraduate Petition Form
Use this form to petition to transfer courses and other departmental requests. 
Download
Undergraduate Student Handbook
Review program objectives, requirements, academic rules, advising resources, etc.
Download
Curriculum Map
View our dynamic curriculum map that shows prerequisite courses.
Check it Out

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
