https://chbe.illinois.edu/news/stories/46588
Kenneth Jaconetty to deliver May 2022 convocation remarks  | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Kenneth Jaconetty to deliver May 2022 convocation remarks 
 4/28/2022
 Claire Benjamin
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering will welcome alumnus and intellectual property expert Kenneth Jaconetty to share remarks at the upcoming convocation ceremony held at 10 a.m. on Sunday, May 15, 2022, at the Tryon Festival Theatre in the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts. The event, which will celebrate May 2022 graduates as well as alumni who were unable to celebrate during the pandemic, will be livestreamed at the link below. 
Ken Jaconetty (BS '82) is an Intellectual Property attorney and until recently was senior director and associate general counsel, IP legal lead for IP Transactions at Astellas Pharma U.S. Previously, he has served as assistant general counsel for IP at Takeda Pharmaceuticals and senior counsel at Baxter Healthcare Corporation, and in numerous other roles as a patent and intellectual property attorney. Jaconetty earned his JD at George Washington University Law School. Inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement, he has established scholarships at both of his alma maters to combat institutional racism and create a more inclusive system. 
Kenneth Jaconetty Alumni Profile
“Ken is a great example of an alumnus who is applying the critical-thinking and analytical skills from our discipline to another field where he has flourished,” said ChBE Department Head Paul Kenis, the Elio Eliakim Tarika Endowed Chair. “What's more, he is ensuring that future generations of students are given the opportunity to flourish by endowing the Kenneth E. Jaconetty Scholarship to support students from diverse backgrounds, serving as an alumni judge for our undergraduate research symposium, and now by sharing his wisdom as our next convocation speaker. We are honored to count Ken among our distinguished alumni." 
Our ceremony plans are subject to change; please reference our convocation page for updates and details; ChBE graduates must register by April 25 and order academic attire to take part in convocation. The department also invites graduates from May 2020 to May 2021 to register and celebrate their graduation in person. Any questions about convocation should be directed to the Undergraduate Program Office.  
May 2022 Convocation Livestream Link

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
