https://chbe.illinois.edu/alumni/alumni-awards
Alumni Awards | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Alumni Awards
Help us honor our outstanding alumni
Nominations are accepted on a rolling basis with a final deadline of July 1 to submit for full consideration. Self-nominations are encouraged and any nomination that is not selected will be held for future consideration. Submissions are accepted via the nomination form or contact us at chbe@illinois.edu or 217-244-0941. 
Nomination Form
Save the Date! 
Graduate and Alumni Awards Ceremony
Mark your calendar for our annual fall ceremony that celebrates our Alumni Awards recipients, graduate student fellows, and Graduate Research Symposium winners. We hope you can join us for this celebration, which will be followed by a reception.

Alumni Awards
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering launched the Alumni Awards program in 2019 to recognize our distinguished graduates.
2019
Young Alumni Achievement Award
Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan
In a little over six years on the faculty of the University of Michigan, Dr. Wen has demonstrated rare achievements in her work applying protein engineering principles to address global challenges. The quantitative approach she developed to measure reaction rates of enzymes has advanced the fundamental understanding of protein self-assembly and its functional consequences on living cells. The novel, self-assembling particles she developed can also stimulate an immune response to viral infection and against cancer. At Michigan, she established a state-of-the-art mass cytometry core facility for single-cell immune profiling and has brought together faculty from across 14 departments.
After completing his bachelor’s degree at Illinois, Dr. Virkar earned his PhD under the guidance of Professor Zhenan Bao at Stanford, where he investigated and improved the performance of thin film conductors and semiconductors. In 2010, he co-founded and launched C3Nano after winning several business plan competitions, including the MIT Clean Energy Competition. As CTO, he is responsible for technical direction and is involved in overall strategy and business development. C3Nano has become a global leader in transparent electrode materials for clean technology applications such as flexible personal electronics, solar cells, OLED lighting, and smart windows. Dr. Virkar has more than 25 patents related to materials for next-generation and progressive electronics, and has co-authored technical publications in peer-reviewed journals.
Distinguished Alumni Award
President, National Academy of Engineering; President Emeritus and Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology
In July 2019, Dr. Anderson began a six-year term as president of the National Academy of Engineering. He was elected to the NAE in 1992 for his contributions to the understanding of colloidal hydrodynamics and membrane transport phenomena. Dr. Anderson served as the president of IIT from 2007 to 2015 and is currently a distinguished professor of chemical engineering there. His past academic leadership positions include chair of biomedical engineering, department head of chemical engineering, and dean of engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, as well as provost and executive vice president at Case Western Reserve University.
Dr. Brennecke’s research has focused on the development of more environmentally friendly solvents and processes. Of particular interest is the use of ionic liquids and carbon dioxide for extractions, separations, and reactions. Throughout her career, she’s been recognized by many organizations, including the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2002, she was inducted into the National Academy of Engineering for innovation in the use of ionic liquids and supercritical fluids for environmentally benign chemical processing.
Former Vice President, Union Carbide; entrepreneur
Intel Fellow, Intel Corporation, retired
Mr. Sankman joined Intel in 1980 as a process engineer during the startup of Intel’s Fab 6 chip manufacturing facility in Arizona. He recently retired as Intel Fellow and was director of package pathfinding in the Assembly Test Technology Development group. He was responsible for directing the definition of integrated circuit packaging and assembly activities for Intel’s advanced logic products. Earlier in his Intel career, he was the group’s design and core competency manager, a position in which he designed product packages and provided modeling support for assembly technology development. He holds 50 U.S. patents in the field of electronic packaging and was honored with three Intel Achievement Awards—two in the area of semiconductor fabrication and one in semiconductor packaging.
The following individuals were also recognized with Distinguished Alumni Awards for earning previous honors from the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, University of Illinois Alumni Association, The Grainger College of Engineering, and the University of Illinois Foundation:
The late Dr. Babb pioneered the development and commercialization of artificial kidney systems. In 1952, he joined the faculty at the University of Washington, where he developed the nuclear engineering program. Eventually, he moved into biomedical engineering. The portable kidney dialysis machine designed by Babb became the prototype for individual dialysis machines used worldwide. He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1972. In 1993, he received the Illinois Alumni Association’s Alumni Achievement Award.
During his career with GE and Dow Chemical, Dr. Banholzer worked on artificial diamonds, plastics, solar-powered shingles, lighting, stealth technology, and more. At Dow Chemical, he was an executive vice president, leading venture capital, new business development, and licensing activities, and chief technology officer. Dr. Banholzer was named a member of the National Academy of Engineering in 2002 for his breakthroughs in stealth materials and contributions to the isotope effect in solid-state physics, and for business leadership. He joined the Wisconsin faculty in 2013 after retiring from Dow. The College of Liberal Arts & Sciences presented him with an Alumni Achievement Award in 2014.
Founder, Beckman InstrumentsAlumni Achievement Award, University of Illinois Alumni Association (1960)
In 1934, the late Arnold Beckman invented a portable meter for measuring the acidity of California lemons. The “Beckman acidometer” or pH meter as it came to be called, was the first of a series of successful inventions that made possible a revolution in scientific instrumentation. He and his wife, Mabel Beckman, contributed nearly $350 million to the advancement of research and education. The Beckman Institute at the University of Illinois is a fine example of their generosity. He received the Illinois Alumni Association’s Alumni Achievement Award in 1960.
Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-MadisonAlumni Achievement Award, College of Liberal Arts & Sciences (1989)
Dr. Bird is a towering figure in modern chemical engineering. As a professor at Wisconsin, where he has been on the faculty since 1950, Dr. Bird outlined and unified the fundamental theories that govern transport phenomena in all chemical engineering processes. His book, Transport Phenomena, written with Warren Stewart and Edwin Lightfoot, is the classic text of 20th-century chemical engineering. He is a member of both the National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Sciences and a recipient of the National Medal of Science. He was a recipient of the College of LAS Alumni Achievement Award in 1989.
Dr. Boger is a world-renowned expert in rheology and is best known for the development of “Boger Fluids,” which behave both like solids and liquids depending on how stress is applied to the fluid. He is also well known in the mining industry for developing processes that mitigate the environmental risks associated with toxic mining waste. He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2017 for discoveries and fundamental research on elastic and particulate fluids and their application to waste minimization in the minerals industry. He is a recipient of a 2016 College of LAS Alumni Achievement Award.
As a longtime researcher at IBM, Dr. Deligianni played a leading role in solving numerous technical challenges in the electronics industry. She helped introduce electrochemical processes in solder bump technology, now a standard practice for joining silicon chips to packages. She also co-invented the copper electrodeposition process for on-chip interconnects, which revolutionized computer chips and allows computers to run faster. Thanks to her work, the microelectronics computer industry ultimately embraced and adopted electrochemistry and electrochemical engineering as a mainstream method for volume manufacturing of state-of-the art computer chips for devices from iPhones to high-end computer servers used for cloud computing in data centers. Dr. Deligianni is a recipient of a 2019 College of LAS Alumni Achievement Award.
After graduating from Illinois, Mr. Georges joined DuPont, where he spent 28 years in various positions, including general manager of textile fibers and chief environmental officer. In 1979, he was tapped by International Paper as its executive vice president. He later served as president and COO, followed by CEO and chairman from 1984 until his retirement in 1996. Under his leadership, International Paper became a world leader in forest and paper products. A member of the University of Illinois Foundation Board, he has served as its president. He is a former director of the New York Stock Exchange and former director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. Georges was inducted into the Grainger College of Engineering Hall of Fame in 2015.
Dr. Henderson is a passionate educator who has committed himself to increasing the number of underrepresented students obtaining degrees and pursuing careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. While he was a lecturer at the University of Illinois Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, he co-founded the St. Elmo Brady STEM Academy, an innovative afterschool program that introduces underrepresented elementary students to hands-on, inquiry-based STEM activities. The program has since expanded to Houston, where Henderson is now on the faculty of the University of Houston. Henderson is a recipient of a 2019 College of LAS Outstanding Young Alumni Award.
After graduating from Illinois, Mr. Houston joined Exxon and was a key member of the transition team that oversaw the merger of Exxon and Mobil in 1998. He retired from ExxonMobil in 2010 after more than 35 years with the company, serving as Executive Vice President, Refining and Supply Company and Chairman and President of ExxonMobil Sales and Supply. He and his wife Cathy Houston established the Houston Professorship in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Houston was recognized with a College of LAS Alumni Achievement Award in 2006.
Mr. Miller had a long and distinguished career in the energy industry, both domestically and internationally. He retired in 2002 after serving as a Managing Director of Royal Dutch Shell and as Chairman/CEO of Shell Oil Company. A former convocation speaker and the inaugural Samuel W. Parr Lecturer, he has been a longtime supporter of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and hosted the decision conference on the renaming of the department. He and his wife Sheila also established the Miller Chair in Chemical Engineering in the department. In addition, he served on the University Illinois Foundation as its chairman and is the recipient of the University’s Alumni Achievement Award and the Foundation’s William E. Winter Award for Advocacy and Volunteerism. 
As an executive with Rohm & Haas, Mr. Prizer pioneered an organizational approach to productivity improvement and participative management and created strategies for safety, health, environmental affairs, and product integrity. After retiring from industry in 1986, he formed Prizer & Wilkinson, which was involved with technology transfer from university laboratories to commercial practice. Mr. Prizer led the department’s ChE 2000 fundraising campaign and was instrumental in connecting the department with industry. The Charles J. and Dorothy G. Prizer Chair was the first endowed chair in the department and was made possible by the Prizer family. In 2003, he was presented with the College of LAS Quadrangle Award. The Grainger College of Engineering honored him with a Distinguished Alumni Award in 1991.
After earning his PhD in Chemical Engineering from Illinois within three years, Dr. Robb joined GE and quickly advanced through the company’s ranks. As the CT scanning revolution got underway and MRI technology took off, he expanded the business from a break-even business to a highly profitable and growing enterprise. In 1993, President Bill Clinton presented Dr. Robb with a National Medal of Technology and Innovation for his foresight and leadership in the MRI and CT imaging industry. He is a recipient of the University of Illinois Alumni Achievement Award in 2001 and the President’s Medallion in 1993.
After World War II, the late Robert Stuart joined the family business, the National Can Corporation, a Fortune 500 company, where he rapidly ascended to the position of president and CEO. He worked with and often led groups in youth development, health care, crime prevention, church life, education, and much more. He was founding chairman of a development council that helped minority-owned companies obtain billions of dollars worth of business annually. He was a recipient of the LAS Alumni Achievement Award in 2005.
Dr. Wasan has worked as a researcher and administrator at IIT in Chicago since 1964. In 2004, he was elected into the National Academy of Engineering for his pioneering research, inspirational teaching, and the development of novel technology in colloidal processing and interfacial rheology. One of his discoveries, published in Nature in 2003, led to innovative new techniques for oil recovery. He also found ways to use silica dioxide to clean surfaces, including the surfaces of semiconductors. His colloid research also touches on food safety issues. In addition to his research, Wasan has chaired IIT’s chemical engineering department and served in a number of administrative positions, including vice president of research and technology, and vice president for academic affairs. He received a College of LAS Alumni Achievement Award in 2015. 
After receiving his chemical engineering degree from Illinois, the late John Widdowson obtained his JD from the University of Michigan Law School in 1948. He became an attorney and practiced law in Wichita, KS, where he specialized in patent, trademark, copyright, and unfair competition law. He retired from active practice in 1998 and was a member of the University of Illinois Foundation. He and his late wife, Melba, provided substantial funding for the James Westwater Professorship Fund. In 2002, he received the Dean’s Quadrangle Award from the College of LAS.
2020
**Canceled due to  the pandemic
 
Young Alumni Achievement Award
Jacob Becraft (BS ’13) Co-founder and CEO of Strand Therapeutics
Jacob Becraft is a synthetic biologist and biotech entrepreneur, as well as the co-founder and CEO of Strand Therapeutics. He received his BS in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, graduating magna cum laude with distinction. Becraft started his career at MIT, where he earned his PhD, developing the SAfER platform—the world’s first synthetic biology programming language for mRNA. Strand Therapeutics is situated at the intersection of synthetic biology, immunotherapy, and mRNA therapeutics. He is an inventor on a multitude of patents in the biotech/gene therapy space and has won numerous awards for his scientific and entrepreneurial achievements, including a Goldwater Scholarship, a Viterbi Fellowship, and an Amgen Fellowship. He previously served as a science and technology advisor to the Massachusetts State Legislature. Becraft also serves on the executive board of Public Health United, a non-profit focused on helping scientists to become scientific ambassadors. 
Laura Banovic Flessner (BS ’05)Co-founder and CEO of Mindtap
Laura Flessner has 17 years of experience in innovation, beginning her career as a packaging engineer at Procter & Gamble. She would move on to become the director of R&D product design for new benefit innovation at Pfizer, leading new business innovation strategy and implementation within Global Wellness. In 2019, she founded several start-ups while at GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). In November 2020, she launched Mindtap to coach and train organizations and individuals to lead through innovation by fusing neuroscience with agile innovation principles. She serves as an innovation advisor at Ascend Leadership, where she helps guide the leadership team through innovation processes to identify, experiment, and build value-added leadership programs. Flessner earned her BS from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and has since expanded her knowledge and skills through several programs and certificates, including a CORe Business Essentials Certificate (the pre-MBA program at Harvard University). 
Distinguished Alumni Achievement Award
Professor of chemical engineering at the Pennsylvania State University, 2020 president of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers 
Daniel Crowl (MS ’73, PhD ’75)Retired (formerly Michigan Technical University)
Daniel A. Crowl retired from Michigan Technological University in August of 2015 and is the past Herbert H. Dow Professor for Chemical Process Safety and a professor emeritus. From 2015 to 2019, he was a staff consultant for the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) and an adjunct professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Utah. Crowl is a Fellow of AIChE, the American Chemical Society Safety and Health Division, and the AIChE Center for Chemical Process Safety. He is AIChE/CCPS certified in process safety. He is the co-author of the textbook Chemical Process Safety: Fundamentals with Applications, 1st thru 4th editions published by Pearson. He is also the author of the AIChE eLearning course on laboratory safety and was a major contributor to the AIChE Chem-E-Car safety program. Crowl has received numerous awards from AIChE, ACS, and the American Chemistry Council. His research at Michigan Tech significantly improved the experimental characterization of flammable gases. Crowl received his BS in fuel science from the Pennsylvania State University and his MS and PhD in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. He generously served as a judge for this year’s Graduate Research Symposium.
H. Scott Fogler* (BS ’62)Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Michigan.
H. Scott Fogler passed away Saturday, August 21, 2021, at the age of 81. Scott earned a BS in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and an MS and PhD from the University of Colorado. Scott spent his entire 56-year academic career with the chemical engineering faculty at the University of Michigan. Pivotal to his remarkable national and international impact, Scott authored or co-authored 12 textbooks, including “Elements of Chemical Reaction Engineering” and “Essentials of Chemical Reaction Engineering”. Throughout his long career, Scott received many awards, honors, and accolades from national professional societies including an honorary degree, doctor honoris causa, from Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Tarragona, Spain, and the F.J. & Dorothy Van Antwerpen Award for Service from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), where he served as president in 2009. Notably, he created the long-running and much lauded Chem-E-Car Competition, which has drawn teams from more than 100 universities. Forty-five PhD students graduated from his research group, which published more than 240 articles under his leadership. He loved teaching undergraduate and graduate “ChemE” courses as well as a course he created on strategies for creative problem-solving. Scott met his wife, Janet, on a blind date in 1959 at the University of Illinois, and they were together from that moment on, married 59 years.
Joseph Glas (MS ’62, PhD ’65) Retired, DuPont and BioEnergy International Alumni Achievement Award, University of Illinois Alumni Award (2020)
After graduating from Illinois with his doctorate, Joseph Glas joined DuPont as a research engineer and then progressed through management assignments in research, manufacturing, marketing, and business, eventually to the position as head of DuPont’s fluoroproducts “Freon” and “Teflon” as vice president and general manager. He led DuPont’s efforts in developing safe alternatives for the “CFC’s” thereby supporting an accelerated phase-out of the production of CFCs throughout the world. The U.S. EPA recognized those efforts with its Environmental Protection Award and the U.S. Department of Commerce awarded DuPont its National Technology Medal in 2002. Today he is retired and has very recently moved to Tucson, Arizona, to be closer to his two daughters who are MDs and professors in the University of Arizona Medical School, and his three youngest of fourteen grandchildren. Together with his wife Donna, Glas established an endowed scholarship in chemical engineering in memory of his advisor, Professor James Westwater. Ever loyal to his alma mater, Glas chaired the department’s resource development committee in the early 1990s and has served on its external advisory committee. He also is a former convocation speaker. Glas received a 2020 Alumni Achievement Award from the University of Illinois Alumni Association. 
Kit Gordon (BS ’83) Environmentalist and semiconductor inventor
Kathryn “Kit” Gordon launched her career at a small semiconductor startup called Monolithic Memories before moving on to another successful startup called QuickLogic where she invented an amorphous silicon anti-fuse for the company’s first product: field programmable gate arrays or FPGAs. In 2011, Gordon co-founded a successful plant-based skincare company, Botanic Organic. In Santa Clara Valley, also known as Silicon Valley, Gordon has been heavily involved in a number of environmental organizations, including Grassroots Ecology and the Santa Clara Valley Water District, the public agency that manages water supply, flood protection, and stewardship of area streams. She’s served on several committees for the water district: the environment and water use committee, independent monitoring committee, and the One Water planning committee that looks holistically at flood control, water supply, and environmental protection. Gordon earned a BS in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and went on to earn an MS in electrical and electronics engineering and MBA from Santa Clara University. Gordon has also supported and given her time to the department, serving as a judge for our graduate research symposium and as the featured Convocation speaker in 2016. 
Steve McLin (BS ’68)Retired (formerly Bank of America)
Stephen McLin was a longtime executive in the banking industry. He briefly worked at Atlantic Richfield in Anaheim, California, before pursuing higher education and realizing his passion for finance. McLin worked much of his career at Bank of America (BofA), buying and selling other companies. He started out as assistant vice president in the cashiers division and in seven years rose to become BofA’s top strategist. McLin would become executive vice president of BankAmerica Corporation, a subsidiary of Bank of America. He left BofA to become president of America First Financial Fund. Throughout his career, McLin negotiated more than 40 transactions, acquisitions and sales, which represented total assets in excess of $32 billion. In 1999, he created the McLin Family Foundation, and he served on the Schwab board until he retired. McLin earned a BS from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, an MS in mechanical engineering at Stanford University, and then an MBA, also at Stanford.
Marchoe Dill Northern (BS ’97)Senior vice president and global home care brand franchise leader at Procter & Gamble
Marchoe Dill Northern graduated from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and began her career at Procter & Gamble as a process engineer in Green Bay, Wisconsin. There, Northern attended the University of Chicago MBA program, commuting to Chicago each weekend. She graduated with her MBA in 2004, concentrating in marketing and finance. She made a career transition within P&G to marketing and moved up the ranks to hold positions such as senior brand director for oral care where she led top brands like Crest, Oral B, and Fixodent. Currently, she serves as the senior vice president and global home care brand franchise leader at P&G in Geneva, Switzerland. She leads and sponsors several of the company’s diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. Northern has supported our department’s own efforts and recently sponsored a scholarship. She has also served as a guest speaker and the December 2020 convocation keynote speaker. 
Contact Us
Reach out with any questions about our Alumni Awards. 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
