https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/undergraduate/research
Research Opportunities | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Research Opportunities
 Undergraduate Research Opportunities
ChBE students are encouraged to learn more about current faculty research topics and reach out to professors with whom they would like to work. Omega Chi Epsilon (or OXE), the National Honor Society for chemical engineering, organizes an annual research fair to help pair undergraduate students with research groups. OXE also organizes a research symposium every spring to showcase undergraduate research accomplishments.
Generally, undergraduate researchers earn course credit to satisfy technical elective requirements in the department, though opportunities for paid positions are sometimes available. Students who are interested in pursuing graduate school after graduation are particularly encouraged to seek out research opportunities.
How to Obtain Course Credit for Independent Research Projects
Undergraduates can earn up to a maximum of 10 hours of undergraduate research credit to satisfy degree requirements for the chemical engineering concentration, and a maximum of 9 credit hours to satisfy degree requirements for the biomolecular engineering concentration. A maximum of 3 credit hours can be used to fulfill the 400-level chemical engineering elective requirement. This includes CHBE research credit (CHBE 297, 397, 497, 499) and research credits through other departments.
As a general guideline, students are expected to spend 4 to 5 hours/week in the laboratory for every credit. Students arrange their research project topic through their research advisor and must obtain approval from the head advisor of chemical and biomolecular engineering for all independent research projects.  
The department's independent research courses must be conducted under the supervision of a professor in chemical and biomolecular engineering. Undergraduates may also obtain research credits to satisfy technical elective credits through research projects completed in other departments; however, these projects must be approved prior to the beginning of each semester and generate credit through the department in which the undergraduate works. Without prior approval, credits will not count toward the completion of degree requirements in chemical and biomolecular engineering. Under no circumstances will research credits earned in other departments count as chemical and biomolecular engineering electives. 
CHBE 499 is the senior thesis course for undergraduates working in laboratories. CHBE 499 projects involve a minimum of 5 hours and a maximum of 10 hours of undergraduate research credit and require the undergraduate to write a formal thesis at the completion of the project. The total credits may be spread over two or more semesters. While it is possible to complete a 5-hour CHBE 499 project in a single semester, this represents an exceptional case. Under no circumstances will more than 5 hours of research credit be approved in one semester. To graduate with distinction, you must complete 6 credit hours of CHBE 499 and earn a 3.0 or higher overall University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign GPA.
Students seeking approval for their independent research projects — either in labs within or outside the department — must fill out the Independent Research Projects Form below. 
Independent Research Projects Form
 
Note: Research credits will not be awarded to individuals doing research off-campus (such as at companies).

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
