https://chbe.illinois.edu/
Home | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Home
Chemical engineers love a good challenge.
From fuel cells to disease-fighting drugs, you could help solve the world's most daunting challenges in health, energy, and the environment.
Explore Your Future
Recent News
Kenneth Jaconetty to deliver May 2022 convocation remarks 
News | April 28, 2022
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering will welcome alumnus and intellectual property expert Kenneth Jaconetty to share remarks at the upcoming convocation ceremony held at 10 a.m. on Sunday, May 15, 2022, at the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts.
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering will welcome alumnus and intellectual property expert Kenneth Jaconetty to share remarks at the upcoming convocation ceremony held at 10 a.m. on Sunday, May 15, 2022, at the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts.
Professors David Flaherty and Diwakar Shukla receive Dean's Award for Excellence in Research
News | April 27, 2022
Chemical and biomolecular engineering professors David Flaherty and Diwakar Shukla were recognized as recipients of the Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research from The Grainger College of Engineering at a ceremony held on April 25, 2022. 
Chemical and biomolecular engineering professors David Flaherty and Diwakar Shukla were recognized as recipients of the Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research from The Grainger College of Engineering at a ceremony held on April 25, 2022. 
An NSF Expedition in Computing: Mind in Vitro - Computing with Living Neurons
News | April 22, 2022
Hyunjoon Kong is among the team to lead a 7-year, $15 million NSF project entitled “Mind in Vitro - Computing with Living Neurons" to imagine computers and robots that are human-designed, but living.
Hyunjoon Kong is among the team to lead a 7-year, $15 million NSF project entitled “Mind in Vitro - Computing with Living Neurons" to imagine computers and robots that are human-designed, but living.
Powers to receive Excellence in Undergraduate Advising award
News | April 7, 2022
Kimberly Powers, an academic advisor for the School of Chemical Sciences since 2018, has been selected to receive the Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising. She will be recognized at an awards ceremony on April 13 at the Alice Campbell Alumni Center.
Kimberly Powers, an academic advisor for the School of Chemical Sciences since 2018, has been selected to receive the Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising. She will be recognized at an awards ceremony on April 13 at the Alice Campbell Alumni Center.
More News Stories
#6
best undergraduate engineering program (Grainger Engineering)
#8
undergraduate chemical engineering program
#12
graduate chemical engineering program
 
More Facts and Rankings
.
Get to Know Us
Aleczandria Tiffany
Jayne Allen
Uzoma Monye
Kenneth Jaconetty
More Undergraduate Profiles    More Graduate Profiles    More Alumni Profiles    All Profiles
Upcoming Events
Instruction Ends


CCIL CDP Program Meeting
12:00 PM

Reading Day/IT No Change Period in effect


Go to Calendar
April01
Chemical and Biomolecular EngineeringConvocation Ceremony
10 a.m. (doors open at 9 a.m.) on Sunday, May 15, 2022
 Tryon Festival Theatre in the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts
Learn More


Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
