https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/undergraduate/apply
Apply Now | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Apply Now
At Illinois, you will be immersed in a rigorous yet rewarding program. Our students learn from experts inside and outside the classroom—they conduct cutting-edge research, intern with Fortune 100 companies, design chemically powered cars, and much more. Our alumni go on to design sustainable products and processes to transform our world.
Undergraduate Admissions
Admission to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is competitive. View the Admissions website to learn about the process. No single factor, including test score or high school rank, will guarantee admission to Illinois.
Decisions, which are made at the college level, are based primarily on the following:
How We Review First-Year Applicants
FAQ for First-Year Applicant FAQ
Apply now

 

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
