https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/undergraduate/research-symposium
Undergraduate Research Symposium | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Undergraduate Research Symposium
Undergraduate students in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering actively work alongside our world-class faculty on a variety of research projects. Every year in April, these students have the opportunity to present their work as part of the Undergraduate Research Symposium.
The annual event is organized by Omega Chi Epsilon, the national honor society for chemical engineering. It is an opportunity for students to showcase their research and network with alumni from the industry who serve as judges.
Past Events:
Save the Date! 
Mark your calendar for our annual spring events. Our Undergraduate Research Symposium will be held in the early afternoon, followed by the Undergraduate Scholarship and Awards Ceremony (tentative start time of 4:30 p.m.). We hope you can join us to celebrate our undergraduate students at these events. More details to come.


Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
