https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/outreach/engineer-guy
Engineer Guy YouTube Channel | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Engineer Guy YouTube Channel
We're home to The Engineer Guy
William H. and Janet G. Lycan Professor Bill Hammack has been entertaining and educating the masses since 1999. His YouTube videos and pieces for public radio have been seen or heard millions of times around the world. Make magazine called him a “brilliant science-and-technology documentarian” whose “videos should be held up as models of how to present complex technical information visually.” Wired called them “dazzling.” Scientific American’s blog called Hammack a “smart, easygoing every man with a firm understanding of the science.”
Hammack explains the simple and brilliant engineering behind a NERF blaster. He uses slow-motion video to show the ingenious design of a soda can tab. He demonstrates how fiber optic cables work, rips up a hard drive, explains the wonder of a quartz wristwatch, solves the mystery of black boxes, blows up a light bulb filament, and explains why you always seem to be in the slowest line. And much more! 
Visit the YouTube Channel
Check out The Engineer Guy's Videos!
Here is a selection of videos by The Engineer Guy—visit subscribe to the YouTube channel for his latest offerings. 
 





Contact The Engineer Guy
Reach out to Bill Hammack directly with your questions and video ideas for other 'engineered stuff.' 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
