https://chbe.illinois.edu/research/areas/biomolecular-engineering
Biomolecular Engineering | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Biomolecular Engineering
Biomolecular engineering and biotechnology have revolutionized the pharmaceutical and agricultural industries and are now playing increasingly important roles in energy, chemical, food, and pharmaceutical industries. Research groups in our department are investigating biological processes from molecular to organism level to answer both fundamental scientific questions and to engineer new products. In particular, research groups at Illinois are developing methods to convert renewable feedstocks such as plant biomass into fuels and chemicals; create implantable biomaterials to regenerate bone, tendon, cartilage, muscle, and blood vessels; engineer cell functions through environmental and genetic controls; discover novel antibiotics, anticancer drugs and agrochemicals, improve bioimaging quality and understand fundamental mechanisms underlying biological phenomena.
Faculty:

Synthetic Biology and Biochemical Engineering
The goal of synthetic biology is to engineer and reprogram cellular processes for producing novel compounds and also improving health and the environment through the rational implementation of well-characterized genetic components.

Regenerative Medicine
Advances in the field of tissue engineering and healthcare are increasingly reliant on advanced material systems that instruct, rather than simply permit, a desired cellular response.

Cellular and Molecular Biophysics
Cells are tiny but complex bioreactors. Cellular function is collectively determined by the combination of biochemical reactions that occur within it. These biochemical reactions are ultimately controlled by the concentrations and structures of biomolecules within the cell. Several research groups in our department work on understanding the mechanisms by which these reactions can be controlled.

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
