https://chbe.illinois.edu/alumni/homecoming
Homecoming Tailgate | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Homecoming Tailgate
2022 Homecoming Tailgate
Saturday, October 15, 2022 
Alumni and friends, you're invited to celebrate the University of Illinois Homecoming with our fellow ChBE graduates! 
Stop by our tailgate to enjoy complimentary food and drinks and catch up with your fellow ChBE alumni. Watch the Fighting Illini take on Minnesota. The department will have tickets available on a first-come, first-served basis.
2022 Fighting Illini Football Schedule
Stay tuned for more details and information.  

Don't miss our Homecoming Tailgate!
Update your contact information to ensure you always get an invite to this annual event.
Update Your Information
Contact Us
Please reach out with any questions about this event! 
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
