https://chbe.illinois.edu/news/stories/46363
Powers to receive Excellence in Undergraduate Advising award | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Powers to receive Excellence in Undergraduate Advising award
 4/7/2022
 Claire Benjamin
The College of LAS has named the winners of this year’s teaching and advising awards, and Kimberly Powers, an academic advisor for the School of Chemical Sciences since 2018, has been selected to receive the Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising. She will be recognized at an awards ceremony held at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 13, 2022, at the Alice Campbell Alumni Center.
"The College of LAS is enormously proud of the recipients of this year's teaching and advising awards," said Venetria K. Patton, Harry E. Preble Dean of the College of LAS. "Teaching and advising has always required devotion, and in today's environment, the challenge has been even greater. We're fortunate to have these compassionate, adaptable, and creative individuals working to make futures brighter for our students."
Known for her personable, friendly, and accessible style, Powers is also responsible for implementing several innovative services and programs that directly impacted students. They include expanding express advising availability, a new student registration model to engage admitted students, a new student welcome event to foster more connections between students majoring in chemistry, and the creation, in conjunction with the Division of General Studies, of a peer-mentor based first-year experience course.
“From the outline of course material to the intensive trainings we received, it was immediately apparent to me how much effort was put into the design of this course," said one student. "It seemed that Kimberly was always trying to find new ways to deliver course material and more importantly, making it fun and relevant.”
Powers said she loves advising undergraduates for many reasons, but she finds two aspects especially enjoyable.
First, she said, college is a time when young adults start to figure out who they are and who they want to be.
"As an advisor, I get to work with students from the summer before they step foot in a classroom to their final exam in their senior year. Helping students along their short journey at Illinois and seeing who they become academically and personally is incredibly rewarding. I especially love it when students share their next steps with me, whether it’s a first job or a graduate program," Powers said.
And the second aspect is that she is always learning new things from her students.
"I do not have a background in STEM, so I really enjoy when students share what they’ve experienced in class, research labs, or during internships. I also appreciate learning more about who students are as individuals. Knowing what students find interesting or motivating helps me be a better advisor. It also reminds me of how wonderfully varied and rich human lives can be," she said.
Learn more about Powers and the rest of the SCS advising team.

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
