https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/graduate/apply
Apply Now | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Apply Now
Your application begins here.
Apply today to join our community of trailblazers and innovators who are designing products and processes to transform health, energy, and the world. At Illinois, we're here to help you master the knowledge and skills to realize your career goals in industry, academia, or government. 
The Graduate College oversees the application process for the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Applications will be reviewed on a continuous basis. This year, applicants have an option to apply for the spring admission (classes begin on January 18, 2022) or the fall admission (classes begin in August 2022). To be fully considered for spring admission, applicants should submit their complete applications by December 3. Applications received after this date and before the official deadline of January 5, 2022, may still be considered for spring admission if there are openings. Applicants for fall admission are strongly encouraged to submit their complete applications by December 15; however, the final deadline is December 31. Applications that are incomplete after December 31 will not be considered. 
Please note that we do not admit students into our Ph.D. program with the intention of earning a terminal Master’s degree; however, students who have met the requirements may obtain a Master’s degree as a milestone on the path to completing their doctorate.
Questions about our PhD program or the admissions process can be directed to chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu. 
Start Your Application
Successful Applicants
Students applying to the Ph.D. program in chemical and biomolecular engineering should have a baccalaureate degree from an accredited university and an exceptional academic record with three references who can supply a letter of recommendation. We do not require GRE scores for admission. 
Outstanding students with degrees in areas other than chemical and biomolecular engineering (such as chemistry, materials science, bioengineering, and biomedical engineering) are welcome to apply but may be required to take additional courses as determined by the graduate program committee.
We seek to recruit a diverse group of highly motivated graduate students. Students with backgrounds and identities too little represented in academia are encouraged to apply. Our department offers a variety of programs and resources to help every student succeed. Learn more about our commitment to diversity. 


Admission Procedure
Complete the application for the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (10KS0300PHD) through the University of Illinois Graduate College. On the Graduate Admissions page, you will be asked to create an application account and fill out an electronic application. Please review this page closely before contacting the department with general application questions. Direct any admissions questions to chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu. 
You will be asked to provide the following supporting materials electronically via the Graduate College online application; we are not allowing any documents to be mailed in at this time. Incomplete applications will not be evaluated.
*Updated December 1, 2021: Previously, we requested applicants to submit a "Personal Statement"; however, this document has been renamed by the Graduate College and is now called an "Academic Statement of Purpose," which is required by our department (see definition in "Additional Information" below). The current application form includes the option to upload a Personal Statement, which is not required by our department (see definition below). Please contact our Graduate Program Coordinator Connie Knight if you have questions about this change and what documents are required. We apologize for any confusion.
Additional Information
Our admissions committee evaluates the overall application when considering an applicant for admission. The committee will carefully consider an applicant’s letters of recommendation, research experience, publications, research interests, and personal statement.
We provide some general guidelines that are not meant to dissuade potential applicants from applying. A successful applicant may be weak in one area, but strong in all other areas of their application. For example, a student who may not have good grades, but who has good research experience with strong letters of recommendation, could still be considered for admission.
Application Fee and Waivers
The application fee is required and must be paid via credit card prior to the submission of the application.
Domestic applicants may be eligible for an application fee waiver. International applicants are not eligible for waivers.
Learn More
Official Transcripts
All applicants are required to upload a copy of their transcripts directly into the Graduate College online application program. If the transcripts are illegible, we will ask you to submit them again. Please include the grading legend if it appears on the reverse side of the transcript. Transcripts should include degree conferral, where appropriate.
For evaluation purposes, we will accept unofficial transcripts; however, if you are admitted, you will be asked to provide an official transcript showing degree conferral. ChBE will not accept copies of web-based listings of courses available to students as official transcripts.
*An official transcript is obtained directly from the institution in a sealed envelope with the stamp/signature of the registrar on the transcript and the envelope.  
Letters of Recommendation
Three letters of recommendation are required for each applicant.
Recommenders are strongly encouraged to send their letters electronically via the Graduate College online application system. If the recommender chooses not to send their letters electronically, the recommendation letter must be on the official stationery of the school or institution, bearing a masthead and watermark. Photocopies of letters or letters with mastheads printed out from a personal computer will not be accepted. The recommendation form accompanying the letter must also bear the original signature (not a rubber-stamped signature) of the person writing the recommendation letter as well as their name, title, address, phone number, and email address.
If applicants are unable to send the recommendation form to the person writing the letter, the recommender may submit an official letter of recommendation directly to the ChBE office, as long as it is on official letterhead, bears an original signature, and contains all the information on the recommendation form (name, title, phone number, email and mailing address). In rare circumstances, the ChBE office will accept an email from a recommender with the official letter sent as an attachment (preferably in PDF form).
Academic Statement of Purpose/Personal Statement
*Updated December 1, 2021: Previously, we requested applicants to submit a "Personal Statement"; however, this document has been renamed by the Graduate College and is now called an "Academic Statement of Purpose," which is required by our department (see definition below). The current application form includes the option to upload a Personal Statement, which is not required by our department (see definition below). Please contact our Graduate Program Coordinator Connie Knight if you have questions about this change and what documents are required. We apologize for any confusion.
Please follow these guidelines when submitting your application.
We do require an "Academic Statement of Purpose" (which we referred to as a "Personal Statement" prior to December 1, 2021). We suggest that your statement does not exceed three pages with double-spacing. Our department does not have formal format requirements or page/word limits; therefore, your personal statement may exceed the 1000-word limit stated on the Graduate College website. Your statement should address the following: 
We do not require you to upload a "Personal Statement" but encourage you to do so. The Personal Statement is now defined as an invitation for applicants to describe their potential contribution to the institution and alignment with our strategic priorities to create "an institution committed to excellence in discovery, teaching, and research, and a climate where all can achieve their highest aspirations in a safe and welcoming environment." A personal statement includes the following: 
Grade Point Average
Successful applicants typically have an overall grade point average (GPA) above 3.0 on a 4.0 scale* (equivalent to a ‘B’ average) from their undergraduate studies. Grades received in science and mathematics courses will be closely evaluated. However, we evaluate students holistically and welcome explanations for your academic performance in your personal statement. 
Please provide your GPA for all advanced degrees (including master's degrees) to be considered as part of your application. 
*When reporting GPAs, applicants should not convert their scores to the U.S. 4.0 system but should report the scores based on their home institution’s grading system (e.g., 80%, 7/10).
Financial Support
Students who remain in good standing, and continue to make satisfactory academic progress in the program based on their annual reviews are guaranteed full financial support for the duration of their studies in our graduate program. This support includes a stipend* that easily covers living expenses in the Champaign-Urbana area, paid tuition, and costs of research and supplies. Our graduate students are typically required to serve as a teaching assistant during three semesters of their time on campus.
*Our graduate student stipend is among the highest offered at the University of Illinois and extremely competitive compared to other chemical engineering programs with higher costs of living. 
Learn More
GRE (not required)
We do not require the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) for admission to our graduate program. GRE scores are not factored into our admission process; there is no advantage to providing a GRE score with your application. 
We are proud to join a myriad of higher learning institutions across the United States who, over the past several years, have deemed the examination unreliable in predicting the future success of students based on a number of scientific studies by experts. 
 
International Students:
TOEFL iBT® 
TOEFL iBT® is required for international applicants whose native language is not English, with two exceptions:
Our admissions committee will consider applicants whose scores on the spoken section of the exam are at least 24 (the minimum speaking score required to teach at the university). Applicants whose speaking scores fall between 20-23 may be considered if the rest of the application is strong and English proficiency is demonstrated by other means. The total score must meet the university minimum of 79. Successful applicants with a total score of less than 103 will be admitted with limited status and must sit for an English Placement Test (EPT) upon arrival in the fall.
Students who matriculate with a score less than 24 (speaking) are required to sit for the English Proficiency Interview (EPI) upon arriving at Illinois. If you have EPI-related questions, please contact me at citl-epi@illinois.edu or 217-265-6136. In lieu of the iBT, the IELTS/TSE may be accepted.Please visit the Graduate College website to learn more about the specific requirements. 
Learn More
TSE/IELTS (not required)
The Test of Spoken English (TSE) is not required for admission, but may be accepted in lieu of the TOEFL iBT®. International students who serve as teaching assistants are required to pass with a score of 50 or higher before being allowed to teach at the university. The fact that a student has taken the TSE and received a passing score will be taken into consideration when decisions on international applicants are made.
The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) will also be accepted. Students who receive a score of 8 on the spoken section of the exam would be eligible to teach. The university minimum score in any section is 6.5.
Certification of Finances Form (not required)
We guarantee financial support for incoming students, therefore, the Declaration and Certification of Finance form is not required for international students applying to the ChBE program.
However, it is important to note on your application if you are going to receive financial support through a government or a private source (like Fulbright, etc). In those cases, we would supplement your stipend support to the level of other graduate students in our program.
Frequently Asked Questions
Application Questions
Can my application fee be waived if I am an international student?
Unfortunately no, we are unable to waive the application fee for international students. 
Do you require a GRE score to apply?
No, you do not need to provide a GRE score to be admitted into our program. 
What is the minimum GPA for the PhD program?
We require a minimum GPA of a 3.0 to be accepted into our PhD program. 
Do I need to be “sponsored” by a faculty member?
No, you do not need to be sponsored or accepted by a faculty member. Our graduate students are accepted into our program (not  a specific lab). After being accepted, and learning more about all the work going on across the department, you will be matched with a faculty member during your first semester on campus. 
We do encourage applicants to reach out to our faculty members directly to learn more about their research and the department during the application process. Our professors are always happy to meet with students and answer any questions! 
Am I exempt from the English proficiency score requirements?
Our Graduate College manages the English proficiency score requirements for our program.  Click the button below to learn more. 
Learn More 
Do I need a master's degree to enter the PhD program?
No, a bachelor's degree is the minimum education requirement to join our PhD program.
If you have a master's degree, please provide your GPA for consideration. 
Program Questions
What does it mean that your program is fully funded?
Our students receive a stipend while attending our graduate program. 
Do you offer a master's degree?
Currently, we only offer a PhD graduate program, although you may obtain your master's degree (MS) on the way to earning your PhD. 
How many students are admitted each year?
Our PhD class sizes are typically 20-30 students.
Student Life
What is the cost of living in Champaign-Urbana?
The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign straddles the twin cities of Champaign and Urbana. Our community is afforable wtih abundant housing options conveniently located close to campus. Our current graduate students find that they can live comfortably here on their student stipend here.
Is your community commutable? What are the transportation options?
Our community is extremely commutable. All students have free access to our award-winning mass transit system, MTD. Most students commute to campus by foot, bike, or bus. Check out our campus Bike at Illinois website to learn more! 
Learn More

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
