https://chbe.illinois.edu/alumni
Alumni | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Alumni
Alumni and friends of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois are part of a global community of leaders from industry executives to pioneering researchers and educators. Together we are advancing the field of chemical engineering and continuing the legacy of Illinois excellence.
As a graduate of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois, you are part of a historic family with roots that date back to 1901, when the first chemical engineering degree was awarded. Wherever you go in the world, you will find fellow Illinois chemical engineering graduates forging new paths in industry, developing leading breakthroughs at research universities, building exciting start-ups, and solving the world’s most challenging problems.
Connect with Us

Catch up
Discover the latest department news through Mass Transfer, our biannual magazine that features alumni news and accomplishments. 
Mass Transfer

Give Back
Volunteer as an alumni judge for our research symposia or guest lecture for one of our courses. Your time is one of the most valuable ways to give back.
Volunteer Opportunities

Reconnect 
Keep in touch with the department and receive the latest news and invitations to our alumni events, such as the annual Homecoming Tailgate.
Update Your Information
Make a Difference
We value all that you can offer the department: your leadership, your time and talent and your financial gifts to continue the legacy of Illinois excellence.
Give to ChBE
Alumni and friends of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Illinois also can give back to their alma mater by returning for seminars and guest lectures, attending activities such as the research symposiums, participating in job fairs and encouraging your company to become a corporate partner.
Become a corporate partner
Contact Us
Let us know if you have any questions! We're here to help.
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
