https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/graduate
Graduate Admissions | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Graduate Admissions
 
 
 
 
Welcome to ChBE.
We are a vibrant, supportive community of chemical engineering scholars. Learn more from our current graduate students about what our department has to offer both in and out of the lab. 
Watch the Video
Innovation & Inclusion—that's the Power of I.
We invite you to become an integral part of our innovative, interdisciplinary community that is filled with leaders in catalysis and surface chemistry, biological and biochemical engineering, and soft materials and complex fluids. At Illinois, you'll discover engaged research advisors, supportive peers, full access to cutting-edge facilities and world-class research institutes, cultural resource centers, and much more. Join Illinois’ bright future and our legacy that includes legendary engineering scholars and leaders—such as Joan Brennecke (UT-Austin) and Fikile Brushett (MIT)—among many other alumni who still call our department home.
Our graduate program is consistently recognized among the top chemical and biomolecular programs in the country. The average annual salary for Illinois students with a Ph.D. in chemical and biomolecular engineering seeking jobs in industry and government is about $102,000. 
Questions about our PhD program or the admissions process can be directed to chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu. 
Program Requirements
Our graduate students must complete the required coursework, write a Ph.D. thesis, and perform satisfactorily on their examinations to earn their doctorate in chemical engineering. We do not admit students into the program with the intention of earning a terminal master’s degree; however, students who have met the requirements may obtain a master’s degree as a milestone on the path to completing their Ph.D. degree. Students typically graduate within five years.
ChBE Grad Student Handbook  Dates and Deadlines  Grad College Handbook
Course Work
Course work for our Ph.D. students includes a minimum of four 500-level courses in chemical engineering and a minimum of four courses (including at least one 500-level course) in one or two other departments. For additional details on course requirements and selections, we refer interested students to the Graduate Student Handbook. Students who enter the graduate program with a B.S. in a subject other than chemical engineering typically take additional courses before the qualifying exam.
Qualifying Exam
The Ph.D. qualifying examination, taken at the beginning of the second year, comprises an oral presentation of the proposed research including a literature review and a 6- to 12-month research plan. Please note that our qualifying exam does not include a traditional written examination. 
Preliminary Exam
The preliminary examination, typically taken before the end of the third year, includes a written research proposal and oral presentation to the examination committee describing preliminary data, a detailed research plan, and a timeline for completion of the dissertation.
Final Exam
The final examination, or the dissertation defense, is a significant milestone in a graduate student’s career. This stage involves the student presenting their work to their doctoral committee and disseminating their work to the public. More information about the final exam/dissertation defense, including deadlines, thesis writing guidelines, and assembling a committee for the final defense is provided by the Graduate College Thesis Office.
Questions about the program and its requirements may be directed to our Graduate Program Coordinator. 
Get to know us!
Our community is comprised of graduate students who are putting their unique passion and skills to work to create a better world. Discover the people who make our department impactful and the best place to call your academic home. 
Learn More
Research Opportunities
Discover the four research areas where you can concentrate your research efforts within our cutting-edge program.
 
 
Learn More
 
 
Our pioneering biomolecular research investigates biological processes to answer fundamental scientific questions and to engineer new energy, chemical, food, and pharmaceutical products.
Learn More
 
 
We study of the process of how materials flow and deform to ensure chemical industry tasks can be completed quickly, efficiently, and with minimal material loss or process down-time.
Learn More
 
 
Our department leverages scientific computing and the modeling of complex chemical and biomolecular systems with the goal of elucidating the underlying design principles to improve efficiencies.
Learn More
Research Information and Resources
Here's an overview of some of the research facilities and services at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign where our faculty and students have access to cutting-edge resources and multidisciplinary collaborators to realize their research goals. Our department is committed to ensuring that our students have access to the equipment and expertise that they need to be successful. 
School of Chemical Sciences
Our department is nested within the School of Chemical Sciences (SCS), which provides unrivaled services and resources to support our students and faculty. This dedicated research infrastructure sets our program apart. SCS created a Center of Research and Educational Support (CORES) endowment to perpetually provide our researchers with the best equipment and support staff required to achieve the frontier research objectives of our faculty and students.
Download CORES Brochure
High-throughput Screening FacilityMicroanalysis LaboratoryMass Spectrometry LaboratoryNMR (Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) LaboratoryX-Ray Diffraction Laboratory
Cell Media FacilityComputer Applications and Network Services and Computer Electronics Electrical ServicesGraphic ServicesSCS Human ResourcesSCS Business Office
Glass ShopMachine ShopStoreroom
Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology
The Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology is a community of scholars and a physical space to foster interdisciplinary collaboration, inspire bold scientific risk-taking, and nurture new ideas and discoveries. The Beckman Institute is home to two core research facilities: the Biomedical Imaging Center and the Imaging Technology Group. 
  
Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology
The Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology (IGB) is where science meets society—an interdisciplinary institute dedicated to transformative research and technology in life sciences using team-based strategies to tackle grand societal challenges. IGB's Core Facilities—conveniently located in the concourse level of the building—provide a variety of services to the campus community.  
Core Facilities is your resource for biological microscopy and image analysis. The facility is meant to encourage innovation—try new techniques and approaches to achieve your research goals without a significant investment in instrumentation or time. The Core Facilities offers high-end equipment, user training, ongoing support (including experimental design and data interpretation), and 24-hour access.  The Core is a ZEISS Labs@location partner, enabling us to provide both beta instrumentation and advanced training to the campus. The Core Facilities offers a computer lab with memory and processing power for high-throughput research. The computers are equipped with Amira and Imaris software. 
Biocluster is the HPC service for the IGB, a mix of compute nodes and the distributed filesystem mentioned above to help solve essentially every Bioinformatics need.  Compute fees are based on the type of node, resources, and amount of time utilized. Twice a semester the Computer and Network Resource Group (CNRG), along with HPCBio (see below), offers classes on how to use HPC services, with a focus on Biocluster.  If you are interested, please ask CNRG for the next date or watch the weekly announcements for the schedule.
Holonyak Micro and Nanotechnology Laboratory
The Holonyak Micro and Nanotechnology Laboratory (HMNTL) is one of the country’s largest and most sophisticated university facilities for conducting photonics, microelectronics, biotechnology, and nanotechnology research. HMNTL’s 15 class 100 and 1000 cleanrooms, 46 general purpose labs, and 2,500 square foot biosafety level-2 bionanotechnology complex contain all the tools researchers need to conduct their work.
 
Materials Research Laboratory
The Materials Research Lab (MRL) fosters interdisciplinary research at the forefront of materials science by bringing together world-class faculty, staff, postdocs, students, and industry in materials science, condensed matter physics, and materials chemistry in a highly-collaborative, progressive research environment. The MRL hosts over 140 instruments valued at over $40 million. 
National Center for Supercomputing Applications
The National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) is a hub of trans-disciplinary research and digital scholarship. NCSA was the home of Blue Waters—one of the fastest supercomputers in the world—that ended its role as the NFS track 1 supercomputer after 6.75 years of production. At its launch, Delta will be the most performant GPU computing resource in NSF’s portfolio, making it a prime destination for advanced scientific research. 
 

Discover More Resources
We have a multitude of facilities and services that will be at your disposal as a graduate student at Illinois.
Facilities and Services

Find Your Research Lab
Learn more about our faculty's research efforts to find a lab that aligns with your research interests and goals. 
Faculty Research Profiles

Institutes and Collaborations
Check out cutting-edge interdisciplinary research projects and collaborations that you could be a part of at Illinois. 
Institutes and Collaborations
 
Graduate Concentration in Computational Science and Engineering
The CSE Transcriptable Graduate Concentration is designed to provide graduate students at both the Masters and Ph.D. levels with a solid base in problem-solving using computation as a major tool for modeling complicated problems in science and engineering.  This concentration requires students to complete 16 graduate credit hours. Courses taken toward this concentration will count towards the student’s graduate degree if permitted by the curriculum of their major and the concentration will be listed on their transcript upon graduation. The graduate concentration is only available for students enrolled in participating graduate degree programs. 
CSE Transcriptable Graduate Concentration  Approved CSE Concentration Courses
Join our PhD program!
We've done our best to answer all your questions about the application process on our "Apply Now" page. We are looking forward to receiving your application and counting you among the change-makers in our graduate program.
 Apply Now

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
