https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions
Admissions | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Admissions
Join our inclusive, forward-looking community of problem solvers who are tackling challenges in health, energy, and the environment. Click through to discover what sets our programs apart and how we can help you achieve your career goals and make an impact. 

Undergraduate
Explore undergraduate majors, minors, and unique learning opportunities.
Start Here

Undergraduate Transfers
Learn more about transferring into ChBE at Illinois.
Start Here

Graduate
Explore graduate and professional degree programs, certificates, and concentrations.
Start Here
Apply Now
Become a part of a tradition of excellence known for its small class sizes, supportive community, and opportunities to gain research experience.
Begin Undergraduate Application         Begin Graduate Application

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
