https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/contact-us
Contact Us | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Contact Us
Main Office
Email: chbe@illinois.eduPhone: (217) 333-3640Fax: (217) 333-5052
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC 712600 South Mathews AvenueUrbana, IL 61801
Department Head
Paul J. A. KenisElio Eliakim Tarika Endowed Chairkenis@illinois.edu(217) 333-5076
Faculty Profile
Undergraduate Program Office
Prospective Students
Please email chbe-ugprogramoffice@illinois.edu  or call 217-333-5039 with any questions about undergraduate admissions or to schedule a visit.
Current Students
Contact scs-advising@illinois.edu with your advising questions. They are best able to respond and can put you in touch with others as needed.
Graduate Program Office
Prospective students
Please get in touch with us at chbe-gradrecruiting@illinois.edu with any questions about our graduate program or to schedule a visit.
Current students
Contact chbe-gradprogramoffice@illinois.edu or call 217-300-4452 with any questions, comments, or concerns. 
Advancement
Through your generous support, you can help our faculty generate groundbreaking discoveries and ensure that our students receive an education that is tailored and broad to create informed, culturally aware, well-rounded people.
Contact us at chbe-advancementoffice@illinois.edu to discover opportunities to contribute to our mission. 
Give Now
Corporate Relations
From scholarship endowments to contributions to revitalizing research spaces, there are many opportunities for our corporate partners to support our students and faculty and showcase their brand. 
Contact Tracy Parish, the director of corporate and foundation relations for the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, to find out how your company can contribute. 
LAS Corporate Engagement Report
Alumni Relations
We are grateful to be able to maintain close ties with our alumni, who now number more than 5,000 graduates. Please update your information using the form below. 
Update Your Contact Information
Communications 
We're excited to showcase the latest news from the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Contact Associate Director of Communications chbe-comms@illinois.edu or use the form below.
Submit Your Story Idea 
Additional Staff and Services
The School of Chemical Sciences provides many services to the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering including the following offices: Academic Advising, Business Office, Career Services, Chemistry Library, Computing/Information Technology, CORES scientific service facilities, Director's Office, Facilities Management and Safety, Human Resources, and Receiving/Mail/Copy Services.
SCS Directory   
Looking for someone?
Search our departmental directory for our faculty or staff. 
Directory

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
