https://chbe.illinois.edu/giving/ways-to-give
Ways to Give | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Ways to Give
Dear alumni and friends,

The generosity of our alumni and friends has long been a linchpin of the department’s success. You play a vital role in helping us meet the changing educational needs of students and create an environment where faculty and students thrive.
Gifts to the department are an investment in our world-renowned faculty and their innovative research and teaching endeavors. They sustain vital scholarships and fellowships for the next generation of leaders in chemical engineering—and much more.  
Read about the numerous ways to give below. If your employer provides a matching gift program, you can double or even triple the impact of your donation.
Thank you for your support! 
Dr. Paul KenisElio Tarika Chair and Department Head

Ways to Give
Your support ensures that we remain a leader in engineering education, discovery, innovation, and sustained excellence. To make a gift, choose which path you'd like to take.

Being able to count on your financial support every year helps the department sustain its commitment to excellence and plan for the future. We are deeply grateful to the alumni and friends who include us in their philanthropic priorities each year.
Start Here

You may want to consider making a planned gift to the University, which can offer financial benefits through income and estate tax savings and arrangements that provide lifetime income. Discover six ways to make a planned gift at the link below. 
Start Here

Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match charitable contributions made to the University by their employees, retirees, and/or spouses. Find out if your employer offers a matched gift program at the link below. 
Start Here
Giving Priorities
Increase fellowships for graduate students.
Increase scholarships for undergraduates.
Increase named professor/chair/scholar opportunities for faculty.
Provide state-of-the-art laboratories, classrooms, and technology.
Support outreach efforts.
Contact Us
Reach out for more information about giving opportunities including special project gifts, endowed giving, gifts of security or property, or deferred gifts.
Get In Touch

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
