https://chbe.illinois.edu/academics/student-organizations
Student Organizations | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Student Organizations
Our campus offers many student organizations to help you make meaningful connections, get involved, and develop a variety of skills on your path to a fulfilled and successful future.  
STEM
American Chemical Society (ACS)
Founded in 1876 and chartered by the U.S. Congress, we are one of the world’s largest scientific organizations with more than 155,000 members in 150 countries. Our mission is to advance the broader chemistry enterprise and its practitioners for the benefit of Earth and its people. Our vision is to improve people’s lives through the transforming power of chemistry.
American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE)
AIChE is the world's leading organization for chemical engineering professionals, with more than 60,000 members from more than 110 countries. AIChE has the breadth of resources and expertise you need whether you are in core process industries or emerging areas, such as translational medicine.
Omega Chi Epsilon (OXE) Chemical Engineering Honorary Society
The Society of Omega Chi Epsilon promotes high scholarship, encourages original investigation in chemical engineering, and recognizes the valuable traits of character, integrity, and leadership. The Society serves both undergraduate and graduate students within the Chemical Engineering Department. It encourages meaningful student-faculty dialogue within the department.
Learn more
Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society
Tau Beta Pi is the most prestigious honors society of which an engineer can be a member. It is made up of over 600,000 members, notably astronaut Buzz Aldrin, double Nobel Prize winner John Bardeen, and Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos. The Illinois Alpha Chapter, which has its office in 111 Engineering Hall, has more than 10,000 alumni and is well-known for its member scholarships and fellowships, numerous service events, and outreach activities. The Illinois Alpha chapter was founded in 1897, being the 5th oldest Tau Beta Pi chapter.
The Illinois Alpha chapter has inducted more than 10,000 of the 500,000 Tau Beta Pi members and boasts the second-largest chapter alumni network among all the Tau Beta Pi chapters.
Chemistry and Engineering Sororities and Fraternities
Alpha Omega Epsilon is a professional and social sorority composed of female engineering and technical science students and alumnae from across the globe. Founded on November 13, 1983, the sorority promotes ideals and objectives which further the advancement of female engineers and technical scientists and builds a foundation for lifelong bonds of sisterhood.
Alpha Chi Sigma Alpha Chi Sigma is a unique professional and social fraternity for men and women in the chemical sciences.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
The mission of NSBE is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community.
Learn more
National Organization for Professional Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers (NOBCChE)
NOBCChE is a non-profit professional organization dedicated to assisting black and other minority students and professionals in fully realizing their potential in academic, professional, and entrepreneurial pursuits in chemistry, chemical engineering, and allied fields. We invite you to browse our website, engage with us on social media, talk to our members, attend our programs and discover the NOBCChE spirit for yourself.
Learn more
 Society for Advancing Chinos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science(SACNAS)
We are the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign’s Student Chapter of the Society for the Advancement of Chicano/ Hispanic and Native Americans in the Sciences (SACNAS) and Friends. We are an all-inclusive chapter and we welcome the participation of all individuals who support the mission of SACNAS. One of our goals is to promote diversity in STEM by encouraging and providing students with resources to succeed in the sciences. We believe in being inclusive of all people in order to promote diversity in the sciences. Thus, we have added “Friends” to our chapter name in order to reflect the welcoming of individuals who are interested in joining our cause as our allies. It is our intention to foster a sense of community to students of all backgrounds.
Learn more
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
SHPE changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize their fullest potential and impacts the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. SHPE's vision is a world where Hispanics are highly valued and influential as the leading innovators, scientists, mathematicians and engineers.
Learn more
Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
For more than seven decades, SWE has given women engineers a unique place and voice within the engineering industry. Our organization is centered around a passion for our members’ success and continues to evolve with the challenges and opportunities reflected in today’s exciting engineering and technology specialties.
Learn More
Womxn in Chemical Sciences at UIUC (WiCS)
We are building a professional community of students and alumni from the school of chemical sciences @ UIUC, dedicated to advancing representation and inclusion both in academia and industry. 
Learn More
Graduate Student 
ChBE Graduate Student Advisory Council (GSAC)
The Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Department Graduate Student Advisory Committee (ChBE GSAC) is a representative body of graduate students that acts as a liaison between the graduate students and the administration of the department. We organize events such as the annual Graduate Research Symposium, providing students with a platform to showcase their research and enhance scholarship. We also assist with graduate student recruitment and arrange social events, such as academic networking, welcome week, and recruitment weekends to provide bonding opportunities for students. Moreover, we organize outreach events such as Toys for Tots and a food drive, among others, to create and foster a sense of community service.Learn more
Graduate Engineers Diversifying Illinois (GEDI)
 
Graduate Society of Women Engineers 
GradSWE is a support community and advocate for graduate women in engineering and for undergraduate women interested in pursuing graduate studies in engineering. We encourage women to pursue graduate school, support them throughout their graduate education, and help prepare them for their future careers after they complete their degree. GradSWE provides events that cater to the needs of graduate students and undergraduate students interested in pursuing graduate school.
Learn more
Is something missing?
Let us know if you have an organization to add to this page.
Get In Touch
 

That's the Power of I.
 
Find Your Community

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
