https://chbe.illinois.edu/about/facts
Facts and Rankings | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Facts and Rankings
Exceptional Education
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois is known around the world for its outstanding undergraduate and graduate programs. A hallmark of our undergraduate experience is an emphasis on design projects, undergraduate research opportunities, and internships/co-ops that lead to job offers. Our alumni include many legendary leaders in academia and industry.
Our department is a unit within the School of Chemical Sciences in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, which evolved from the Department of Chemistry as an applied science. The department has close ties to The Grainger College of Engineering, a top-ranked engineering school in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Our students get the best of both worlds, taking advantage of opportunities within both colleges. 
#1
most affordable (out-of-state) top-ranked undergraduate chemical engineering program 
#8
undergraduate program in chemical engineering
#12
graduate program in chemical engineering
25:1
our current student to faculty ratio with a goal of 20:1
About our students
 
*Class Profile Fall 2021
 
 
$74,131
average annual salary for undergraduate students with an average signing bonus of 5,620
$119,113
average annual salary for graduate students seeking jobs in industry or government
Enrollment and Degrees Awarded
 
 
 
2020-2021 Illini Success Report
97%
of graduates secured their first-choice destination
61%
of undergraduates report that they are employed
36%
of undergraduates are pursuing continuing education
View Illini Success Report
Where do our graduates go?  
Check out our Career Services Illini Success webpage for information on graduate salaries, placements, and a map of where our graduates work throughout the U.S.
Illini Success

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
