https://chbe.illinois.edu/admissions/undergraduate
Undergraduate Admissions | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC
Have questions?Need help?
Contact Us
About
Ready to apply? Your path to ChBE begins here.
Undergrad Application Graduate Application
Admissions
  Our program is among the best, thanks to our stellar students and faculty. 
Facts & Rankings
Academics
Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. 
Learn More
Research
Help us share the department's latest news. 
Submit a Story Idea
News
Learn more about the pioneering research our faculty members are pursuing.  
Research Profiles
People

Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine.
Read Mass Transfer
Alumni
Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. 
Make a Gift
Giving
Undergraduate Admissions
At Illinois, we will prepare you to solve real problems and make an impact. With our degree, you'll be highly recruited by Fortune 500 companies, high-tech start-ups, and top universities. 
For over 100 years, our faculty have been delivering a rigorous and innovative learning experience. Join our program and conduct pioneering research with a faculty adviser, put your skills to work at a summer internship or semester-long co-op, engage in meaningful outreach efforts, build a car propelled by a chemical reaction, and much more.
Download Brochure  Facts and Rankings  Diversity  
What You'll Study
The first two years of the chemical engineering curriculum provide a strong foundation in basic sciences through physics, mathematics, chemistry, an introduction to what chemical engineers do, and the fundamental basis of chemical engineering (mass and energy balances and thermodynamics.)  In the third year, you will delve deeper into more specialized chemistry courses such as physical and analytical chemistry, while exploring fundamental chemical engineering courses such as momentum transfer, separations, and reactor design. The senior year incorporates all of this learning through high-level technical electives, process control, capstone lab, and capstone design courses. It is through the lab and design class that you'll apply everything you've learned in previous chemical engineering courses to real-world team projects and presentations.
This major is housed within our College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and maintains close ties with The Grainger College of Engineering. Students take advantage of resources and programs in both colleges—getting the best of both worlds.
Curriculum Map
Research Areas
Specializations
The chemical engineering specialized curriculum provides two areas of concentration: chemical engineering and biomolecular engineering. Each area is based on a strong fundamental understanding of chemical engineering; however, the biomolecular concentration’s technical electives focus more on bio-applied processing and technology.
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
From creating life-saving medicines to advancing fuel cell research, a degree in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering allows you to improve the products that people use every day while reducing their cost.
Watch Our Video
Post-Graduation Success
Chemical engineers work in fuels and energy; biotechnology, including pharmaceuticals; foods and beverages; cosmetics and other consumer products; advanced materials and plastics. The average annual salary for Illinois students graduating with a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering is $74,000, according to the School of Chemical Sciences Career Services.
The department has a history of producing outstanding graduates, from Arnold Beckman (BS ’22), inventor of the pH meter and founder of Beckman Instruments, to BP CEO Bob Dudley (BS ’78). Paul Adriani (BS ’85) with SunPower develops new products that convert sunlight into electricity. At Pixelligent Technologies, which manufactures next-generation optical materials for the electronics industry, Amy Stabell (BS ’07) designed the company’s reactor for making the nanomaterials. Brian Kwok (BS ’00) is a lawyer focusing on intellectual property practice, including patent strategy and licensing. As senior product design engineer, Sonam Patel (BS ’11) develops consumer products for Procter & Gamble’s feminine care business. Other BS graduates, like Dan Pack (BS ’90) and Chris Arges (BS ’05), have gone on to earn their doctoral degrees and become chemical engineering faculty.
What is chemical engineering?
Interactive Map of 'Where Our Graduates Go'
93%employed or continuing education
47%employed after graduation
46%attending graduate school
$74,000average starting annual income
Employer Destinations
Grad School Destinations
 
Meet Our Students
Get to know some of the amazing people who have been a part of our program.
Student Profiles
Everything you're looking for—and more
Real-world design projects
A hallmark of the Illinois experience is the "Design Across the Curriculum" program where our students work on practical design projects throughout their undergraduate years. The Design Across the Curriculum experience culminates in the two-semester capstone design and unit operations lab sequence. In CHBE 431: Chemical Process Design, groups typically design a process to manufacture a commodity chemical.
Course Highlight: Introduction to the ProfessionIn CHBE 121, students focus their design project on a chemical process accident and what must be done to avoid one in the future.
Learn More
Course Highlight: Unit Operations LaboratoryThe Unit Ops Laboratory delivers a hands-on experience for students before they head into industry or continue on in academia.
Learn More
Undergraduate Research
Students work alongside our world-class faculty and outstanding graduate students on a variety of research projects, from carbon nanoparticle-based photovoltaics to tissue-on-a-chip models of brain cancer. 
Learn More
Co-ops and Internships
Cooperative education programs offer students the opportunity to perform real-world, chemical engineering-related work at a company. Students alternate terms of work with terms of school, working at least one semester and one summer with the same company for approximately 6-12 months total. Internships offer students one-time work experiences that typically occur in the summer.
Learn More
Study abroad
As a ChBE student, you can fit an international experience into your schedule. You may choose to study abroad, intern abroad, or volunteer abroad. Our students have recently studied in Sweden, Spain, France, and England to name a few.
Learn More
Join our program!
We are looking forward to receiving your application and counting you among the change-makers in ChBE.
Apply Now

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
 School of Chemical Sciences
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
The Grainger College of Engineering
University of Illinois
114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712
                                                        600 South Mathews Avenue
                                                        Urbana, IL 61801, USA
							P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052
                                                       Email: chbe@illinois.edu

Learn more
Connect
© 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Privacy Policy
Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster
