https://registrar.illinois.edu/courses-grades/explanation-of-grades/
Explanation of Grades – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Explanation of Grades
Uncertain as to how the Illinois grading system works? Following is a quick explanation.
Grade Point Scale
Illinois is on a four-point grading system (Student Code, 3-103) that includes both plus (+) and minus (−) grades. Grades are evaluated in terms of grade points, as displayed below.
A+
4.00
A
4.00
A−
3.67
B+
3.33
B
3.00
B−
2.67
C+
2.33
C
2.00
C−
1.67
D+
1.33
D
1.00
D−
0.67
F
0.00
ABS
0.00
Grade Symbols
Following are the symbols you may see when reviewing your grades. Become familiar with these terms and their meanings.
&
Religious foundation
Grade does not count toward the student’s GPA or earned hours.
*
Other
Grade does not count toward the student’s GPA or earned hours.
ABS
Absent
Absent from the final exam without an acceptable excuse (counts as a failure; not acceptable for degree credit).
If a student is absent from a final exam and it’s clear that taking that exam couldn’t have resulted in a passing grade, a grade of F may be given instead of ABS.
AU*
Audit
Indicates attendance as a visitor only.
BR
By rule
Beginning in Fall 2004, tracks students who have not complied with time limitations for incomplete or deferred grades.
Grade comment of BR on SHATCKS (does not print on a transcript).
CR*
Credit earned
Used only in courses taken for credit/no credit. Instructors report the usual letter grades. A grade of C− or better will automatically be converted to CR.
DFR*
Grade temporarily deferred
Used only in thesis, research, and special-problems courses extending over more than one semester that are taken by graduate students as preparation for thesis and by undergraduate students in satisfaction of the requirements for graduation with honors and in other approved courses that extend over more than one semester.
FR
F by rule
“F by rule” grade code for courses prior to Fall 2004.
H
Honors
Honors credit, as certified by the department offering the course
HON*
Honors
Used only for Carle Illinois College of Medicine core clerkship courses indicating completion with honors.
I*
Incomplete
Approved extension of time to complete the final examination or other requirements of the course.
NC*
No credit earned
Used only in courses taken under the credit/no credit grading option. Instructors report the usual letter grades. A grade of D+ or lower or a grade of ABS will automatically be converted to NC.
NP*
No Pass
Used for Graduate, Law, and Undergraduate students during global health emergency. No credit is earned for courses with this grade designation.
NR*
Not reported
Automatically recorded when the instructor has not submitted the grade.
NV*
Not valid
Automatically recorded when the grade submitted by the instructor is not valid for the student’s grade mode.
NZ*
No Pass COVID
No Pass. Used for Graduate and Undergraduate students during global health emergency.
PD*
Pass with Distinction
Used for Law students only during global health emergency.
PP*
Pass
Used for Graduate, Law, and Undergraduate students during global health emergency. Credit is earned for courses with this grade designation.
PS*
Pass
Used for test-based credit. A minimum of C− is required.
PZ*
Pass COVID
Pass. A minimum grade of D- is required for credit. Used for Graduate and Undergraduate students during global health emergency.
S*
Satisfactory
Used only as final grades in graduate thesis research courses, in graduate and undergraduate courses given for zero credit, and in other courses that have been specifically approved by the head or chairperson of the department concerned, with concurrence of the college dean.
U*
Unsatisfactory
Used only as final grades in graduate thesis research courses, in graduate and undergraduate courses given for zero credit, and in other courses that have been specifically approved by the head or chairperson of the department concerned, with concurrence of the college dean.
W*
Authorized withdrawal
Approved withdrawal without credit.
* Not included in the calculation of a GPA.

Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

