https://registrar.illinois.edu/faculty-staff/staff-grades/final-grades/
Final Grades – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Final Grades
Final grade submission deadlines for the current term are available on the Office of the Registrar grade processing schedule. Missing grades can cause a significant hardship for students, particularly for those graduating, on academic probation, needing verification of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) for continuing financial aid, or needing to satisfy prerequisites. Instructors have until the final grade entry deadline to submit grades and should be submitted within 72 hours of the end of the final examination in the course.  This is to allow for system processing time especially in fall semesters with compressed timelines due to campus approved Holiday schedules. Prior to entering final grades, please review the explanation of grades for additional information on the University of Illinois grading system.
Failure to submit final grades by the grade entry deadline for a student and/or course will result in the student or students receiving an “NR” (Not Reported) grade on their academic record. Any student that receives an “NR” grade may be negatively impacted during the academic standing and financial aid eligibility review processes for subsequent terms.
Please refer to our Final Grade Entry Tips page for additional information on common questions and scenarios that you may encounter during your submission of final grades.
Final Grade Entry Instructions
Before entering final grades, all faculty members are required to Establish an Enterprise ID in order to access the Faculty Self-Service system. (Required if you have not previously accessed the Faculty Self-Service system)
Follow these steps to use the “Enhanced” final grade entry interface:
Follow these steps to use the traditional interface for entering final grades:
Review the Last Attendance Date and Attendance Hours Guidelines.
Additional Information
Please contact the Academic Records Unit within the Office of the Registrar at record-info@illinois.edu or 217-333-9774 if you have any questions or require assistance.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

