https://registrar.illinois.edu/registration/concurrent-enrollment/
Concurrent Enrollment – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Concurrent Enrollment
University of Illinois
Students may be eligible to enroll in courses on more than one University of Illinois campus (Urbana-Champaign, Chicago, or Springfield) during a given semester. Students who plan to enroll for courses on more than one campus at the same time must complete the Application for Concurrent Registration form.  The approval process originates in the student’s own department or college.
If the application is approved, concurrent students at Urbana are issued a time ticket to register in the course(s) they received approval for.  Credit hours on both University campuses count toward the maximum amount of hours a student may register for without special overload approval from his or her college.
Concurrently enrolled students are billed by their home campus for hours on both campuses.  Tuition and fees assessed by the host campus are reversed after 10th day of the term, approximately.*  
At the end of the term, the student is responsible for requesting a transcript be sent from the Chicago or Springfield campus to Urbana.  Academic credit earned at another University of Illinois campus is not automatically reflected on a student’s home campus.        
Deadlines for submitting the Application for Concurrent Registration are the preceding:
Additional information regarding concurrent registration may be obtained by contacting Registration Services.
*Engineering City Scholars are assessed the Service, Health Service, and Transportation fees at UIC and the General, AFMFA, Library/IT, and Health Insurance fees at UIUC. 
Parkland College
Illinois students who want to take courses at Parkland College during the summer, fall or spring terms should decide which course or courses they would like to take and meet with their academic office for guidance. Students are required to submit their academic history from Student Self-Service as a PDF to Parkland College in addition to completing the applicable concurrent enrollment form provided below. As soon as Parkland grades are posted for the semester, students must request an official transcript be sent to Illinois according to the Transfer Credit instructions.
Important note: Students using Financial Aid in fall or spring (aid is typically not available for summer semesters) must ALSO complete the Student Financial Aid Concurrent Enrollment Agreement.

Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

