https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-records/academic-records-faq/
Academic Records FAQ – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Academic Records FAQ
If you can’t find the answer to your question here, please contact us by email at registrar@illinois.edu.

Grades are no longer mailed. How do I obtain a copy of my grades?
You may view your current semester grades and your academic history online at Student Self-Service.

If I attend awhile and then withdraw, will I get any money refunded?
If you officially withdraw within the refund period, you will receive a pro-rata refund based on the date on the withdrawal form. Refer to our refund schedule for the term in question.

My parents have me covered on their insurance plan. Do I still have to pay for health insurance?
Contact the Office of Student Insurance at 217-333-0165.

How much will it cost to attend the University?
See our information on tuition and fees.

I am an employee here and want to take a class. How much will it cost?
See the Student Code. Also refer to general admission information for employees.

When are bills mailed for this semester?
Bills are no longer mailed. See more information on billing.

How can I find out what my account balance is?
You may check your balance on Student Self-Service or contact University Student Financial Services and Cashier Operations at 217-333-2180.

I ordered transcripts online over the weekend. When can I pick them up?
Former student website orders and faxed orders will be processed within 2 to 5 business days; current student orders placed online are usually processed the following day for pick-up at the Office of the Registrar after 1:00 p.m.

I’ve just requested a diploma. When will I get it?
If your diploma address is a domestic address, it should arrive within 2 to 3 weeks. If it’s an international address, it should arrive within 4 to 6 weeks.

May I change the way my name is shown on my diploma?
If you wish to change your name on your diploma, please email official documentation of your name to graduation@illinois.edu. For international students, the name on your diploma must be the same as your passport name and/or in the University of Illinois student academic record.

May I request that my name appear on my diploma with special characters (e.g. accent marks)?
You may email your name and the special characters to graduation@illinois.edu. Most requests will be granted.

May I make special arrangements for receiving my diploma?
You may email graduation@illinois.edu to hold your diploma for pick-up by you or a designee, or to have your diploma mailed to an alternative address.

Will I receive my diploma if I have a hold on my record?
You may not receive your diploma if you have a past-due account balance. See Diploma Eligibility for more information.
When will my final transcript be released after my conferral date?
Transcript orders held for degrees are released approximately four (4) weeks after your conferral date.  If the status of your degree in Academic History of Self Service indicates that the degree has been Awarded and is no longer Pending prior to the release date listed on the Academic Calendar, you may call the Transcripts Unit at 217-333-9778 and request that the Hold for Degree be removed and your transcript order processed.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

