https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-records/trans-credit/
Transfer Credit – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Transfer Credit
Transcripts and Transfer Credit
Current University of Illinois undergraduate students should contact their college office for information on transfer credit restrictions prior to enrolling in courses at other institutions.
Students may use Transferology to view what coursework will transfer to the university. The transfer course equivalencies and the reports generated from the system do not constitute a contract between the student and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Students still need to contact their college offices to verify how the transfer coursework will be accepted and used towards graduation requirements in that college.
After permission has been granted to take off-campus coursework and the student has completed the course, an official transcript must be sent directly from the institution where the coursework was taken. Official transcripts can be sent through U.S. mail, an electronic transcript vendor or secure online exchange from the sending institution. Mailed transcripts should be sent to:
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
University of Illinois
901 West Illinois Street
Urbana, IL 61801
Transcripts received directly from a student and/or emailed as a PDF are not considered official.
Electronic transcripts that are sent by official vendors (Parchment, National Student Clearinghouse, etc.) are considered official. The transcript ordering system at most colleges and universities will allow a student to direct a transcript order to a person or university. If you are able to, please direct your transcript order to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Office of Undergraduate Admissions. If this option is not available, order the transcript be sent to etranscript@illinois.edu.
Academic credit earned at another accredited University or college and accepted by the University of Illinois is recorded in semester hours.  Coursework will be listed on the transcript with the institution’s name, total credit hours, GPA hours, Grade Points, and total GPA.  Individual classes and grades are not listed. See Article 1, Part 3, 1-303(c) in the Student Code for more information.
Reverse Transfer of Credit for Associate Degree
The university participates with the following Illinois community colleges to reverse transfer Illinois credit to a community college for potential awarding of an associate degree. Annually in February, the university will notify currently enrolled students who meet reverse transfer credit eligibility requirements. Students interested in being considered for an associate degree can opt-in by completing the provided online authorization to release their transcript to the selected, previously attended community college. If multiple community colleges were attended, only one can be selected to receive the reverse transfer of credit. The university will then send a free copy of the student’s transcript to the specified community college for review. The community college will contact the student regarding their associate degree status.
Parkland College
Black Hawk College – beginning Spring 2021
City Colleges of Chicago – beginning TBD
Other Illinois community colleges interested in this process should contact the Transcripts & Verification Unit.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

