https://registrar.illinois.edu/registration/registration-faq/
Registration FAQ – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Registration FAQ
Following are questions we are often asked regarding registration. If you can’t find the answer to your question here, please contact us by phone (217-333-6565) or email (registration@illinois.edu).

Where can I go to get help with registration?
Go to the Records Service Center in the Admissions and Records Building (901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801) or call 217-333-6565. Business hours are 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. Help with Student Self-Service is also available at the AITS Service Desk (phone: 217-333-3102; email: servicedeskaits@uillinois.edu).

Where can I get a cost estimate for my classes for a semester?
You can obtain the tuition, campus fees and other estimated costs for a semester by answering a few questions on the Illinois Cost Calculator.

What should I do if I’ve forgotten my Network ID or password or my password doesn’t work?
Follow the instructions provided on the Identity and Access Management website, contact Technology Services via phone (217-244-7000) or email (consult@illinois.edu), or visit 1211 Digital Computer Lab, 1304 West Springfield, Urbana, IL 61801 weekdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (if you visit in order to reset your password, be sure to bring a photo ID with you).

Why do I need to verify that my address is correct?
Because the addresses entered into Student Self-Service by the students are the only addresses that the University has for students, they need to be kept up to date. Having out-of-date or missing addresses can delay mailing of important pieces of mail. Students are required to maintain a current set of addresses. See Section 2-202 of the Student Code. Student Self-Service may be used to update addresses at any time throughout the year.

I can’t get into a class because it has seats reserved. Why?
Departments can reserve seats in a class or in a section for specific groups of students. These groups can be based on college, curriculum, class, honors, and other categories. If the class schedule does not have clear notes describing the seat reservations in the course, contact the teaching department for more information.

I registered online for next semester some time ago, but now I don’t want to attend. What can I do?
If you wish to cancel your registration and thus avoid payment of tuition and fee charges, follow instructions provided on Canceling Your Registration.

I am registered for less than 6 semester hours, so I don’t have access to Campus Recreation Facilities. What can I do?
Students exempt from fees because they are enrolled in less than 6 hours (Fall or Spring) may obtain services by paying the term fee at a cashier’s window in 100 Henry Administration Building. For more information, visit the University Bursars website.

How do I find out my time ticket timeframe?
About 2 weeks prior to the start of registration, your time ticket will be made available online at Student Self-Service by selecting “registration eligibility” from the registration menu. That webpage will provide information about holds on your record and your time ticket. If you have problems finding your registration timeframe, you can contact Registration Services.

How are time tickets assigned?
Continuing students, those currently registered for classes, are assigned priority registration times for Fall and Spring each term. Registration times are assigned following a priority system that has been in existence on this campus for over 25 years. The priority system recognizes students with special needs to and also students’ proximity to graduation within a given priority group.

What if the term for which I wish to register does not appear on the main menu?
You may be attempting to register before Student Self-Service is ready to accept transactions for the term, but you may still view classes offered for the term. If Student Self-Service is accepting transactions, then it is likely that you have not been authorized to enroll for this term. Contact your college office if you are an undergraduate student and your department if you are a graduate student.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

