https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-records/changing-your-personal-information/
Changing Your Personal Information – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Changing Your Personal Information
Legal Name or Social Security Number (SSN)
Office of the Registrar/Registration Services
901 W. Illinois St. MC-063
Urbana, IL 61801
Phone: 217-333-6565
Fax: 217-333-3100
Secure upload through myIllini profile.
If you are a student and current employee at any University of Illinois location, present your updated social security card as legal documentation reflecting the change to the person responsible for human resources in your employing Unit. In addition, review My UI Info for other places you may need to update your name.
If you are a student and your employment with the university has ended within the last 18 months, present your updated social security card as legal documentation reflecting the change to the appropriate Human Resource office listed below:
System Human Resources Services
Swanlund Building, 600 East John Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Illinois HR
52 East Gregory Drive, Champaign, IL 61820
Note: If you are currently employed or were previously employed by the University of Illinois, the employee name on record with the university must be the legal name on record with the U.S. Social Security Administration. If it is not, both the employee and university may be in violation of federal tax laws.
Diploma Middle Name or Special Characters
Email graduation@illinois.edu  and include your UIN for these changes allowed on your diploma. If you need your first or last name changed, follow the instructions above for an official name change.
Preferred First Name
If you would like to use a name that is not your legal first name within the campus community, refer to the Preferred First Name page for more information and instructions.
Email and Other Addresses
Update your personal email address, mailing address, phone number or emergency contact information in Student Self-Service on the Personal Information tab.
Update gender on your official student record by presenting government issued documentation to Registration Services.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

