https://registrar.illinois.edu/tuition-fees/tuition-info/
Tuition Information – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Tuition Information
Tuition rates are determined by the University Board of Trustees. They are based on the following:
Curriculum
Your tuition rate is generally based on what primary program you are studying. All undergraduate students enrolled in Grainger Engineering and Engineering related, Chemical & Life Sciences, Fine & Applied Arts, Journalism, Advertising, Gies College of Business, School of Information Sciences and certain curricula in the College of Agriculture, Consumer, & Environmental Sciences (ACES) and College of Liberal Arts & Sciences (LAS), College of Applied Health Sciences (AHS) and College of Education are assessed a tuition surcharge.  Some graduate and professional programs assess a tuition surcharge.  Graduate online programs and non-degree online enrollment may be based on the course of enrollment.  Joint programs or dual degrees are charged tuition based on the first or primary program.
Residency Classification
Another factor in determining your tuition rate is whether you are a resident or nonresident of Illinois or an international student. Residency rules are available on the University-Wide Student Programs website. Your residency classification is based on information you provide on your admission application and other credentials.
To request review for possible change in your residency classification, download the petition. You must submit the petition by September 1 for Fall, February 1 for Spring, or June 1 for Summer. If you fail to submit a petition within the allotted time period, you lose all rights to a change in status and adjustment of your assessed tuition for the term, but the petition may be submitted for a following term.
You are notified of your petition decision via the e-mail you provide on your petition.
For additional information, refer to the University’s frequently asked questions about in-state and out-of-state residency or call 217-333-6565.
Billing Hour Range
Tuition and some campus fees are based on the number of billing hours in which you are enrolled at the time those amounts are calculated. Billing hours could be higher than credit hours if you dropped a class after the deadline for possible tuition refund. Those deadlines are provided on the academic calendar for the term. You have the first 5 days of a POT A or B (8 week) class and 10 days of a full semester class to drop the class via Student Self-Service and have your credit AND billing hours reduced. Dropping a class after that posted deadline will not reduce your billing hours. You also cannot ‘swap’ hours such as dropping a full semester class after that 10th day drop deadline and adding a POT B class with no impact to your billing hours. For example, if you have 10 billing hours in week 6 of a semester, drop a 2 hour full semester class and add a 2 hour POT B class, your billing hours will change to 12. You will be charged more tuition and fees since you changed from range II to range I tuition level.For campus based programs, not fully online programs which are charged on a per credit hour basis, there are 4 possible credit ranges with the tuition amount being the same for any number of hours enrolled in within the range.  There is no additional charge for any amount of hours above 12 for programs charged on the range basis.
Fall & Spring
Summer
Tuition is assessed per credit hour for most programs.
Employer Reimbursement Request
If you need an official letter for tuition reimbursement from your employer, please email registration@illinois.edu. Please include in your email your full name, UIN and information the employer is requesting. Commonly requested information from employers include: the semester, the program, the university attended, courses taken, number of credit hours, cost per credit hour and total tuition charges. Please note, we do not verify any payments the student has made to their student account or grade information.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

