https://registrar.illinois.edu/graduation/graduation-faq/
Graduation FAQ – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Graduation FAQ
Following are questions we are often asked regarding graduation.

When will my degree appear on my transcript?
Your college will review your record and certify your degree following the end of your final term. Your degree will usually be recorded on your academic record approximately 4 weeks after your conferral date.

What is the difference between a degree and a diploma?
A degree is the academic rank or grade earned by completing a specified program of study. A diploma is a paper displaying the name of the degree.

What official documents can the University provide to confirm my degree once it has been awarded?
The University can provide the following as proof of your degree: official transcript, verification of degree, diploma, certified copy of diploma, and eDiploma.

When will I get my diploma?
Your initial diploma will be sent to your diploma address approximately 9 weeks after your conferral date. See Delivery of Your Diploma for further details. If you ordered a replacement diploma, please allow 2 to 3 weeks for domestic addresses and 4 to 6 weeks for international addresses.

Why have I not yet received my diploma?
There are several reasons why you may not have received your diploma:

May I change the way my name is shown on my diploma?
If you wish to change your name on your diploma, please email official documentation of your name to graduation@illinois.edu.
Students graduating in August 2020, or later, may choose to create a diploma name with a preferred first name and legal last name. Examples of preferred names include: using a middle name instead of a first name; using an abbreviated name (Tom instead of Thomas); using an Americanized name (Wendy instead of Haiyan); or using a name that better reflects one’s ethnic, racial or gender identity. Instructions for submitting a diploma name will be included in our regular graduation information emails that is sent to graduating students each semester.  Please be advised that in some situations, the name appearing on your diploma may need to match other legal documents you possess.

Preferred First Name vs. Diploma Name: What’s the Difference?
A preferred first name is used on class rosters, the display name in Banner Self-Service, and the display name in a number of learning management systems (e.g., Blackboard, Compass, and Moodle), most online phone directories, and on the University i-card. Setting a preferred first name does not automatically change the name that will be listed on a diploma or used at Commencement/Convocation ceremonies. A student must specify a diploma name (see below) to change the name listed on their diploma and other Commencement/Convocation related materials and ceremonies.
Unless a student specifies a diploma name, the legal name is used on diplomas, in the Commencement program, lists of graduates, and related press releases. Students may submit a diploma name by emailing graduation@illinois.edu (include UIN). Submission deadlines for May, August, and December graduates to be announced at a later date.
Please be advised in some situations, the name appearing on your diploma may need to match other legal documents you possess.
Acceptable uses of preferred first name and diploma name include:

May I request that my name appear on my diploma with special characters (e.g. accent marks)?
You may email graduation@illinois.edu with your name and the special characters. Most requests will be granted.

May I change the address to which my diploma will be mailed?
You may change your address on Student Self-Service prior to the date we submit the final order for the diplomas. Choose the diploma address type from the address type options when creating /submitting a new address. If the diploma has already been mailed, you will need to order a replacement.

May I make special arrangements for receiving my diploma?
You may call 217-333-6383 or email graduation@illinois.edu to hold your diploma for pick-up by you or a designee, or mail your diploma to an alternative address.

I know that I am on the pending degree list, but how can I be certain that I have met all of the degree requirements?
Undergraduate students should consult with the records officer in their college. Graduate students should check with their departmental office. Professional students should check with their college.

Will I receive my diploma if I have a hold on my record?
You may not receive your diploma if you have a past-due account balance. See Diploma Eligibility for more information.

What if I have finished all of my degree requirements but my degree will not be recorded for several weeks and I need written proof that my degree has been earned?
If you are an undergraduate student and you need a formal letter verifying that you have met all degree requirements, contact your college records officer.
If you are a graduate student and you need a formal letter verifying that you have met all degree requirements, contact your departmental office.
If you are a professional student and you need a formal letter verifying that you have met all degree requirements, contact your college office.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

