https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-records/preferred-first-name/
Preferred First Name – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Preferred First Name
Students who would like to use a name other than their legal first name within the campus community are able to enter a preferred first name, update an existing preferred first name, or delete an existing preferred first name through Student Self-Service on the Personal Information/Preferred First Name page. You may view the University policy for acceptable uses of a preferred first name.
Do NOT enter your legal first name as your preferred first name since that will cause redundant records.
Preferred first names will be viewable in the following ways:
Out of concern for the safety and privacy of transgender and nonbinary students, we do not use preferred names on any communication or documentation that will be viewed outside the campus community. We follow this approach to protect against the possible inadvertent disclosure of a preferred name that a student may not have yet chosen to use outside of the University of Illinois.
Preferred First Name vs. Diploma Name: What’s the Difference?
Setting a preferred first name does not automatically change the name that will be listed on a diploma or used at Commencement/Convocation ceremonies. A student must specify a diploma name (see below) to change the name listed on their diploma and other Commencement/Convocation related materials and ceremonies.
Unless a student specifies a diploma name, the legal name is used on diplomas, in the Commencement program, lists of graduates, and related press releases. Students may submit a diploma name by emailing graduation@illinois.edu (include UIN). Submission deadlines for May, August, and December graduates to be announced at a later date.
Please be advised that in some situations, the name appearing on your diploma may need to match other legal documents you possess.
Acceptable uses of preferred first name and preferred diploma include:
Contact the Registration Services Unit at registration@illinois.edu or 217-333-6565 with questions about preferred first name for students.
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

