https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-records/ferpa/
FERPA – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
FERPA
The federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records.
Parents & FERPA – Parents can sometimes feel marginalized by the lack of academic information they receive from their child’s college—especially when the price tag warrants a high degree of their attention. We’ve provided information to help parents understand student record privacy issues in the higher education setting here.
The right to inspect and review the student’s education records within 45 days of the day the University receives a request for access.
The student must submit a written request that identifies the record(s) he or she wishes to inspect to the University official who has custody of the record. A complete listing of Record Custodians is found in the Student Code (3-605). The Record Custodian will make arrangements for access and notify the student of the time and place where the records may be inspected. If the record is not maintained by the University official to whom the request was submitted, that official will advise the student of the correct official to whom the request should be addressed.
The right to request the amendment of the student’s education records that the student believes are inaccurate or misleading.
The student may ask the University to amend a record that he or she believes is inaccurate or misleading. He or she must write to the University official responsible for the record, clearly identify the part of the record he or she wants changed, and specify why it is inaccurate or misleading.
If the University decides not to amend the record as requested by the student, the University will notify the student of the decision and advise the student of his or her right to a hearing regarding the request for amendment. Information regarding the hearing procedures is found in the Student Code (3-604).
The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student’s education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent.
Student information can be released upon completion of the Student Consent to Release Educational and Financial Records form. This form is available to students at the Office of the Registrar, 901 West Illinois Street, Suite 140, Urbana, IL 61801.
Among the exceptions that permit disclosure without consent is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests (Student Code (3-602(e))).
A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility (Student Code (3-602(f))).
Upon request, the University discloses education records without consent to officials of another school in which a student seeks or intends to enroll.
Directory information may be released without the student’s consent (Student Code (3-602(c))). Currently enrolled students may suppress directory information by following the directions found in the Student Code (3-604).
The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to comply with the requirements of FERPA.
The name and address of the office that administers FERPA is:
Family Policy Compliance Office
U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Avenue, S.W.
Washington, DC 20202-4605
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

