https://registrar.illinois.edu/wp-admin/receiving-your-diploma
Diplomas – Office of the Registrar
Office of the Registrar
Diplomas
All University of Illinois graduates with no outstanding University charges will receive one diploma per degree earned, free of charge. In addition, replacement, duplicate, or certified copies of diplomas and/or eDiplomas can be requested through our Online Diploma Service.
Students graduating in August 2020, or later, may choose to create a diploma name with a preferred first name and legal last name. Examples of preferred names include: using a middle name instead of a first name; using an abbreviated name (Tom instead of Thomas); using an Americanized name (Wendy instead of Haiyan); or using a name that better reflects one’s ethnic, racial or gender identity. Instructions for submitting a diploma name will be included in our regular graduation information email that is sent to graduating students about three weeks prior to the end of each semester.  Please be advised that in some situations, the name appearing on your diploma may need to match other legal documents you possess.
Order a Replacement Diploma and/or eDiploma
Do you want another copy of your diploma or has your diploma been lost or damaged? The following Online Diploma Service is available through our official diploma vendor, The Michael Sutter Company:
Certified Copy of Diploma
The Office of the Registrar will provide, upon written request, a certified copy of a diploma. A certified copy of a diploma is a quality copy of the original that has been authenticated and notarized.
Please complete the request form and fax (217-333-3100) or mail or hand-deliver (901 West Illinois Street, Suite 140, Urbana, IL 61801) the form, along with a good photocopy of the original diploma, to us. Certified copies of diplomas are $6.00 each.

Eligibility
University of Illinois policy prevents mailing a diploma if you have a past-due account. Contact University Bursar with questions about your account balance. Once your account has been cleared, you need to contact the Office of the Registrar by phone 217-333-6383 or email by providing your UIN, date the account was cleared, and confirmation of the address for delivery of the diploma.

Delivery of Your Diploma
University of Illinois diplomas are 8.5 × 11 inches and sent by first-class mail to a student’s diploma address approximately 9 weeks after your conferral date. Please review this address and update as necessary before leaving the University. If you have not received your diploma within 9 weeks of the conferral date, please contact the Office of the Registrar.
After mailing, if your diploma is returned to the Office of the Registrar, you will be responsible for providing a corrected address and paying for any forwarding mail charges as well as processing fees. If your diploma is not returned to the Office of the Registrar and 90 days have passed since the mailing date, you will be responsible for providing the correct address and paying for the cost of the replacement diploma.
Any Questions?
Refer to our frequently asked questions regarding graduation for more information on diplomas.
Don’t remember your UIN?  Search for it here.
Contact Us
Diploma Unit
University of Illinois901 West Illinois Street, Suite 140Urbana, IL 61801
Office hours: Closed due to COVID at this timePhone: 217-333-6383Fax: 217-265-8457Email: graduation@illinois.edu
Section Menu
Contact Us

Parents & FERPA | Student Consumer Information


Office of the Registrar

	            901 West Illinois Street, Urbana, IL 61801
	        
©
				2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees

Web Privacy Notice

